6:1
and said the sons of the prophets to Elisha
here! please the place where we are dwelling there before you it is too cramped for us

6:2
let us go please to the Jordan and let us take from there each a beam one and let us make for ourselves there a place to dwell there
and he said go

6:3
and said the one
be willing please and go with your servants and he said I will go

6:4
and he went
with them and came the toward Jordan
and they cut down trees

6:5
and was the one was making fall the beam and the iron
it fell into the water
and he cried out and he said alas! O my lord
and it was asked

6:6
and said the man of God
where? did it fall
and he showed him the place
and he cut off a piece of wood and he threw it toward there
and he caused to float the iron

6:7
and he said lift it yourself
and he stretched out his hand
and he took it

6:8
and the king of Aram he was fighting against Israel
and he consulted to his servants saying will be to a place of a certain one a certain one my encampments

6:9
and sent the man of God to the king of Israel saying take care
from passing by this place
for there Aram is descending

6:10
and sent the king of Israel to the place which he had spoken to him the man of God and he warned him
and he took care there not one time and not two times

6:11
and was enraged the heart of the king of Aram on the matter this
and he called to his servants
and he said to them ¿ not will you tell to me
who? from those who belong to us is to the king of Israel

6:12
and he said one from his servants no
O my lord the king for Elisha the prophet who is in Israel
he tells to the king of Israel the words which you speak in the chamber of your lying down

6:13
and he said go and see where? is he
so I may send
so I may capture him
and it was told to him saying
there! in Dothan

6:14
and he sent toward there horses and chariotry
and an army massive
and they came night
and they surrounded on the city

6:15
and rose early the servant of the man of God to arise
and he went out
and there! an army was surrounding the city
and horses and chariotry
and he said his servant to him alas! O my lord
how? will we do

6:16
and he said may not you be afraid
for are many those who are with us more than those who
are them

6:17
and Elisha prayed
and he said O Yahweh open please his eyes so he may see
and opened Yahweh the eyes of the servant
and he saw and there! the hill it was full horses and chariotry of fire
around Elisha

6:18
and they came down to him and prayed Elisha to Yahweh and he said
strike this please nation with sudden blindness and he struck them with sudden blindness according to the word of Elisha

6:19
and Elisha said to them not this is the way
and not this is the city come after me so let me lead you
to the man whom you seek !
and he led them toward Samaria

6:20
and it was when came they Samaria and said Elisha O Yahweh
open the eyes of these men so they may see
and opened Yahweh their eyes
and they saw and there! they were in the midst of Samaria

6:21
and said the king of Israel to Elisha when saw he them ¿ will I strike them down will I strike them down? O my father

6:22
and he said not you must strike them down ¿ those whom you have taken captive by your sword
and by your bow
are you about to strike down
put food
and water before them so they may eat and they may drink
and they may go to their master

6:23
and he gave a feast for them a great feast and they ate and they drank
and he let go them
and they went to their master
and not they repeated again the marauding bands of Aram to come in the land of Israel

6:24
and it was after thus
and gathered Ben Hadad the king of Aram all his army
and he went up
and he laid siege on Samaria

6:25
and it was a great famine in Samaria and there!
they were laying siege on it until was the head of a donkey for eighty silver
and the fourth part of the kab quano for five silver

6:26
and was the king of Israel passing by on the wall
and a woman she cried out to him saying save ! O my lord the king

6:27
and he said may not he save you Yahweh from where?
will I save you ¿ from the threshing floor or? from the wine-press

6:28
and the king said to her what? is to you
and this said woman she said to me give your son so we may eat this him day
and my son we will eat tomorrow

6:29
and we cooked my son
and we ate him
and I said to her on the day other give your son so we may eat him
and she had hidden her son

6:30
and it was when heard the king the words of the woman and he tore his clothes
and he was passing by on the wall
and saw the people and there! sackcloth was on his flesh from inside

6:31
and he said thus may he do to me God
and thus may he add
if it will remain standing the head of Elisha the son of Shaphat on him this day

6:32
and Elisha was sitting in his house
and the elders
were sitting with him
and he sent a man from before him before he came the messenger to him and he said to the elders ¿ do you see that he has sent the son of this murderer to remove my head
look when comes the messenger shut the door
and you will push him with the door
¿ not is the sound of the feet of his master after him

6:33
still he was speaking with them
and there! the messenger
was coming down to him and he said here! this the calamity is from with Yahweh
why? will I wait for Yahweh still
