19:1
and it was when heard the king Hezekiah and he tore obj. his clothes
and he covered himself with sackcloth
and he went the house of Yahweh

19:2
and he sent obj. Eliakim who was over the house and Shebna the scribe and the elders of the priests
covered with sackcloth to Isaiah the prophet
the son of Amoz

19:3
and they said to him thus he says Hezekiah
is a day of distress and rebuke and insult this day
for they have come children to birth
and is strength there not for giving birth

19:4
perhaps he will hear Yahweh your God obj. all the words of the chief commander whom he sent him the king of Assyria his master to taunt the living God
and will rebuke the words which he has heard Yahweh your God
and you will lift up prayer for the remnant which is found

19:5
and came the servants of the king Hezekiah to Isaiah

19:6
and Isaiah said to them thus you will say ! to your master
thus he says Yahweh may not you be afraid of the words which you have heard which they have blasphemed the servants of the king of Assyria
me

19:7
here I am about to put in him a spirit and he will hear a report
and he will return to his own land
and I will make fall him by the sword in his own land

19:8
and returned the chief commander
and he found obj. the king of Assyria fighting on Libnah
if he had heard that he had departed from Lachish

19:9
and he heard concerning Tirhakah the king of Cush saying
there! he has come out
to do battle with you and he returned and he sent messengers to Hezekiah saying

19:10
thus you will say ! to Hezekiah the king of Judah saying may not he deceive you your God
whom you are trusting in him saying
not it will be given Jerusalem in the hand of the king of Assyria

19:11
here! you have heard obj. that which they have done the kings of Assyria to all the lands
by totally destroying them and you will you be delivered?

19:12
¿ did they deliver them the gods of the nations which they destroyed my fathers obj. Gozan
and Haran
and Rezeph and the people of Eden who were in Telassar

19:13
where is? he the king of Hamath
and the king of Arpad
and the king of Lair Sepharvaim
Hena
and Ivvah

19:14
and took Hezekiah obj. the letters from the hand of the messengers
and he read them
and went up the house of Yahweh
and spread out it Hezekiah before Yahweh

19:15
and prayed Hezekiah before Yahweh and he said
O Yahweh the God of Israel who sits the cherubim
you he are God to alone you of all the kingdoms of the earth you made
obj. the heavens
and the earth

19:16
incline O Yahweh your ear and hear
open O Yahweh your eyes and see
and hear obj. the words of Sennacherib which he has sent it to taunt
the living God

19:17
truly O Yahweh
they have made desolate the kings of Assyria obj. the nations and their land

19:18
and they have put obj. their gods in the fire
for not were gods they that except the work of the hands of humankind wood and stone
and they have destroyed them

19:19
and now O Yahweh our God
save us please from his hand so they may know all the kingdoms of the earth
that you O Yahweh are God to alone you

19:20
and sent Isaiah the son of Amoz to Hezekiah saying
thus he says Yahweh the God of Israel
that which you prayed to me concerning Sennacherib the king of Assyria I have heard

19:21
this is the word which he has spoken Yahweh
on him she has despised you she has mocked you the virgin of the daughter of Zion
behind you a head she has shaken the daughter of Jerusalem

19:22
obj. whom? have you taunted and have you blasphemed? and on whom?
have you lifted up a voice
and have you lifted up? height of your eyes on the holy one of Israel

19:23
by the hand of your messengers you have taunted the Lord
and you have said with the abundance of my chariotry I have gone up the heights of mountains
the remotest parts of Lebanon
so I may cut down the height of its cedars the choice of its pines
and I went the lodging place of its end the forest of its plantation

19:24
I have dug
and I have drunk water strange
so I may dry up with the sole of my feet all the canals of Egypt

19:25
¿ not have you heard from distant time it I appointed from days of antiquity
and I planned it
now I have brought it and you are about to make desolate heaps ruined cities fortified

19:26
and their inhabitants were short of hand they were dismayed and they were ashamed
they were the vegetation of the field and greenery of grass of roofs
and scorching
before standing grain

19:27
and sitting down you and going out you and coming you I know and raging you against me

19:28
because raging you against me and your arrogance
it has come up in my ears
and I will put my hook in your nose
and my bridle on your lips
and I will bring back you by the way
which you came by it

19:29
and this for you will be the sign you will this eat year self-sown grain and in the year second self-seeded plants
and in the year third sow and reap and plant vineyards
and eat their fruit

19:30
and will add the escaped remnant of the house of Judah which remains
a root downwards and it will produce fruit upwards

19:31
for from Jerusalem it will go out a remnant
and an escaped remnant from the mountain of Zion
the zeal of Yahweh of hosts
it will this accomplish

19:32
therefore thus he says Yahweh concerning the king of Assyria
not he will come into this city
and not he will shoot there an arrow
and not he will confront it a shield
and not he will pour out on it a mound

19:33
by the way which he came by it he will return
and into this city not he will come the utterance of Yahweh

19:34
and I will defend to this city to deliver it for my own sake
and for the sake of
David my servant

19:35
and it was in the night that and he went out the angel of Yahweh
and he struck down in the camp of Assyria
one hundred eighty and five thousand
and they rose early in the morning and there! all of them were dead corpses

19:36
and he departed and he went
and he returned
Sennacherib the king of Assyria and he remained in Nineveh

19:37
and it was he was bowing down the house of Nisroch his god and Adrammelech and Sharezer his sons they struck down him with the sword and they escaped the land of Ararat
and became king of Esarhaddon his son in place of him
