2:1
give a blast on a ram's horn in Zion and sound a battle signal on the mountain of my holiness
let them tremble
all the inhabitants of the land for is about to come the day of Yahweh for it is near

2:2
a day of darkness and gloom a day of cloud and thick darkness like dawn
spread out over the mountains
a people numerous and mighty
like it not it has occurred since antiquity
and after it not it will repeat until years of a generation and a generation

2:3
before it has consumed fire
and after it sets ablaze a flame is like the garden of Eden the land before it
and after it a wilderness of desolation
and also escape not it belongs to it

2:4
is like the appearance of horses its appearance
and like horsemen so they run !

2:5
like the sound of chariots over the tops of the mountains they leap ! like the sound of a flame of fire
consuming
stubble like a mighty people
deployed of battle

2:6
from before it they are in anguish peoples all faces they gather a glow

2:7
like warriors they run ! like men of war they go up a wall
and each on its ways they go ! and not they exchange ! their paths

2:8
and each its brother not they crowd !
a man on its track they go !
and through the weapons they fall
not they stop

2:9
on the city they rush on the wall they run ! in the houses they go up
through the windows they go like thief

2:10
before it trembles the earth they shake the heavens
sun and moon they become dark and the stars
they withdraw their brightness

2:11
and Yahweh he gives forth his voice before his army
for is great very his camp for is mighty
the one who does his word
for is great the day of Yahweh and awesome exceedingly and who? will he endure it

2:12
and also now the utterance of Yahweh return to me with all your heart
and with fasting
and with weeping
and with wailing

2:13
and tear your heart and may not it be your garments
and return to Yahweh your God for is gracious and compassionate he
long of anger and great of covenant loyalty
and relenting on harm

2:14
who? is knowing he will turn and he will relent
and he will leave behind him a blessing a grain offering and a drink offering for Yahweh your God

2:15
give a blast on a ram's horn in Zion consecrate a fast call an assembly

2:16
gather the people consecrate an assembly gather the elders
gather children
and suckling-children of breasts let him go out the bridegroom from his room
and the bride from her chamber

2:17
between the porch
and to the altar let them weep the priests the servants of Yahweh
and let them say have compassion ! O Yahweh on your people
and may not you make your inheritance into a reproach to mock on them nations
why? will people say among the peoples where? is their God

2:18
and became jealous Yahweh for his land
and he had compassion on his people

2:19
and Yahweh answered
and he said to his people here I am about to send to you obj. grain and new wine and fresh oil
and you will be satisfied with it
and not I will make you again a reproach among the nations

2:20
and the northerners I will remove far away from with you and I will drive away it into a land dry and desolation
obj. its face into the sea eastern
and its end into the sea western
and it will go up its stench and it will go up foul its smell for he has great made to do

2:21
may not you fear O land be glad and rejoice
for he has great made Yahweh to do

2:22
may not you fear O animals of the field for they are green
the pastures of the wilderness for the trees it has borne its fruit
the fig tree and the vine they have given their strength

2:23
and O people of Zion be glad and rejoice in Yahweh your God
for he has given to you obj. the early rain for righteousness
and he has sent down for you rain early rain
and spring rain in the first month

2:24
and will be full the threshing floors grain
and will overflow the wine-vats new wine and fresh oil

2:25
and I will restore to you obj. the years which it has eaten the locusts the locusts
and the locusts and the locusts
my great army which I sent among you

2:26
and you will eat completely and being satisfied
and you will praise obj. the name of Yahweh your God
who he has dealt with you by doing wonderfully
and not they will be ashamed my people for ever

2:27
and you will know that am in the midst of Israel I
and I am Yahweh your God
and there not is yet
and not they will be ashamed my people for ever
