12:1
and went Rehoboam Shechem
for Shechem it had gone all Israel to make king him

12:2
and it was when heard Jeroboam the son of Nebat and he still he was in Egypt where he had fled because of the king Solomon
and dwelt Jeroboam in Egypt

12:3
and people sent and they summoned him
and came Jeroboam
and all the assembly of Israel
and they spoke to Rehoboam saying

12:4
your father he made hard obj. our yoke
and you now lighten some of the service of father your hard
and some of yoke his heavy which he put on us and we will serve you

12:5
and he said to them go yet three days
and return to me and they went the people

12:6
and consulted the king Rehoboam with the elders who they were standing with the presence of Solomon his father
when was he alive saying
how? are you counseling to bring back obj. this people word

12:7
and they spoke to him saying this if day you will be a servant of this people and you will serve them
and you will answer them
and you will speak to them words kind
and they will be of you servants all the days

12:8
and he forsook obj. the counsel of the elders which they had counseled him
and he consulted with the young men who they had grown up with him who were the ones who stood before him

12:9
and he said to them what? are you counseling
and we may bring back word obj. this people which they have spoken to me saying
lighten some of the yoke which he put your father on us

12:10
and they spoke to him the young men who they had grown up with him saying
thus you will say to this people which they have spoken to you saying your father he made heavy obj. our yoke
and you
lighten from on us thus you will speak to them my little finger it is thick more than the loins of my father

12:11
and now my father he loaded on you a yoke heavy
and I will add to your yoke my father he disciplined you with whips
and I will discipline you with scorpions

12:12
and Jeroboam came
and all the people to Rehoboam on the day third
just as he had spoken the king saying return to me on the day third

12:13
and answered the king obj. the people hard
and he forsook obj. the counsel of the elders which they had counseled him

12:14
and he spoke to them according to the counsel of the young men saying my father he made heavy obj. your yoke
and I will add to your yoke
my father he disciplined you with whips
and I will discipline you with scorpions

12:15
and not he listened the king to the people for it was a turn from with Yahweh
so as to establish obj. his word which he had spoken Yahweh by the hand of Ahijah Shilonite
to Jeroboam
the son of Nebat

12:16
and it saw all Israel that not he had listened the king to them
and the people brought back obj. the king word saying what? belongs to us portion in David
and not an inheritance in the son of Jesse to your tents O Israel
now your own consider house
O David and went Israel to its tents

12:17
and the people of Israel
who were dwelling
in the cities of Judah
and he reigned over them Rehoboam

12:18
and sent the king Rehoboam obj. Adoram who was over the forced labor
and they stoned all Israel him stones
and he died
and the king Rehoboam he proved strong himself to go up in the chariot to flee Jerusalem

12:19
and have rebelled Israel against the house of David until this day

12:20
and it was when heard all Israel that he had returned Jeroboam
and they sent and they called him to the congregation
and they made king him over all Israel
not anyone was after the house of David except the tribe of Judah to only it

12:21
and came Rehoboam Jerusalem
and he called together obj. all the house of Judah and the tribe of Benjamin one hundred and eighty thousand chosen man
makers of war to do battle with the house of Israel to restore obj. the kingship to Rehoboam
the son of Solomon

12:22
and came the word of God to Shemaiah the man of God saying

12:23
say to Rehoboam the son of Solomon the king of Judah
and to all the house of Judah and Benjamin
and the rest of the people saying

12:24
thus he says Yahweh not you must go up
and not you must do battle ! with your countrymen the people of Israel return each to own his house
for from with me it has occurred
this thing and they listened to obj. the word of Yahweh
and they turned back to go according to the word of Yahweh

12:25
and built Jeroboam obj. Shechem in the hill country of Ephraim
and he dwelt in it
and he went out from there
and he built obj. Penuel

12:26
and said Jeroboam in his heart
now it will return the kingdom to the house of David

12:27
if it will go this up people to make sacrifices in the house of Yahweh in Jerusalem
and will return the heart of this people to their lord to Rehoboam the king of Judah
and they will kill me
and they will return to Rehoboam the king of Judah

12:28
and took counsel the king
and he made two calves of gold
and he said to them too much for you for going up Jerusalem
here! your gods O Israel which they brought up you from the land of Egypt

12:29
and he set obj. the one calf in Bethel and the one calf
he put in Dan

12:30
and this became thing sin
and went the people before the one calf to Dan

12:31
and he made obj. a house of high places
and he appointed priests from the ends of the people who not they were
from the descendants of Levi

12:32
and Jeroboam appointed a festival in the month eighth on the fif- teen day of the month like the festival which was in Judah
and he offered up on the altar
so he did in Bethel to sacrifice to the calves which he had made
and he stationed in Bethel obj. the priests of the high places which he had made

12:33
and he offered up on the altar which he had made in Bethel on the fif- teen day in the month eighth
in the month which he had devised from his own heart
and he appointed a festival for the people of Israel
and he offered up on the altar to make smoke
