16:1
and came the word of Yahweh to Jehu the son of Hanani on Baasha saying

16:2
because that I raised up you from the dust and I made you a ruler over my people Israel
and you have walked in the way of Jeroboam
and you have caused to sin obj. my people Israel to provoke to anger me by their sins

16:3
here I am about to sweep away after Baasha
and after his house
and I will make obj. your house like the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat

16:4
the one who dies of Baasha in the city they will devour the dogs
and the one who dies of him in the open country they will devour the birds of the heavens

16:5
and the rest of the matters of Baasha and that which he did
and his might
¿ not are they written on the scroll of the matters of the days
of the kings of Israel

16:6
and lay down Baasha with his ancestors
and he was buried
in Tirzah and became king of Elah his son in place of him

16:7
and also by the hand of Jehu the son of Hanani the prophet the word of Yahweh it came against Baasha
and against his house
and on all the evil which he had done in the eyes of Yahweh to provoke to anger him by the work of his hands
to be like the house of Jeroboam
and on that he struck down it

16:8
in year twenty and six year of Asa the king of Judah he became king of Elah the son of Baasha over Israel in Tirzah two years

16:9
and he conspired on him his servant Zimri the commander of half of the chariotry
and he in Tirzah was drinking drunken
the house of Arza who was over the household in Tirzah

16:10
and came Zimri and he struck down him and he killed him in year twenty and seven of Asa
the king of Judah and he became king in place of him

16:11
and it was when became king he when sat he on his throne he struck down obj. all the house of Baasha
not he left to him one who urinates on a wall
and kinsman of his redeemer
and his friend

16:12
and destroyed Zimri obj. all the house of Baasha
according to the word of Yahweh which he had spoken against Baasha by the hand of Jehu the prophet

16:13
because of all the sins of Baasha
and the sins of Elah his son which they sinned and which they caused to sin obj. Israel
to provoke to anger obj. Yahweh the God of Israel with their vanities

16:14
and the rest of the matters of Elah
and all that he did
¿ not are they written on the scroll of the matters of the days
of the kings of Israel

16:15
in year twenty and seven year of Asa the king of Judah he became king of Zimri seven days in Tirzah
and the people were encamped on Gibbethon which belonged to the Philistines

16:16
and heard that people were encamping saying he has conspired Zimri and also
he has struck down obj. the king
and they made king all Israel obj. Omri the commander of the army over Israel on that day in the camp

16:17
and he went up Omri
and all Israel with him from Gibbethon
and they laid siege on Tirzah

16:18
and it was when saw Zimri that it was captured the city
and he went into the fortress of the house of the king
and he burned over himself obj. the house of the king with fire
and he died

16:19
on his sins which he sinned by doing the evil in the eyes of Yahweh
by walking in the way of Jeroboam
and in his sin which he did to cause to sin obj. Israel

16:20
and the rest of the matters of Zimri
and his conspiracy which he conspired
¿ not are they written on the scroll of the matters of the days
of the kings of Israel

16:21
then it was divided the people Israel into the half
half of the people it was behind Tibni the son of Ginath to make king him
and half was behind Omri

16:22
and prevailed over the people which was after Omri obj. the people
which was after Tibni the son of Ginath
and died Tibni
and he became king of Omri

16:23
in year thirty and one year of Asa the king of Judah he became king of Omri over Israel two plus ten years
in Tirzah he reigned six years

16:24
and he bought obj. the hill Samaria from with Shemer
for two talents silver and he built obj. the hill
and he called obj. the name of the city which he built on the name of Shemer the owner of the hill Samaria

16:25
and did Omri the evil
in the eyes of Yahweh
and he evil did more than all those who were before him

16:26
and he walked in all the way of Jeroboam the son of Nebat and in his sin which he caused to sin
obj. Israel to provoke to anger obj. Yahweh the God of Israel with their vanities

16:27
and the rest of the matters of Omri which he did
and his might which he did
¿ not are they written on the scroll of the matters of the days
of the kings of Israel

16:28
and lay down Omri with his ancestors
and he was buried in Samaria
and became king of Ahab his son in place of him

16:29
and Ahab the son of Omri he became king over Israel
in year thirty and eight year of Asa the king of Judah and reigned Ahab the son of Omri over Israel in Samaria twenty and two years

16:30
and did Ahab the son of Omri the evil
in the eyes of Yahweh more than all those who were before him

16:31
and it was ¿ was it trifling to walk he in the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat
and he took a wife obj. Jezebel the daughter of Ethbaal the king of the Sidonians
and he went and he served obj. Baal
and he bowed down to it

16:32
and he set up an altar to Baal
the house of Baal which he built in Samaria

16:33
and made Ahab obj. Asherah pole
and increased Ahab to do to provoke to anger obj. Yahweh the God of Israel
more than all the kings of Israel who they were before him

16:34
in his days he rebuilt Hiel the Bethelite obj. Jericho
by Abiram his firstborn he founded it
and by Segub young his son he set up its gates
according to the word of Yahweh which he spoke by the hand of Joshua the son of Nun
