9:1
and it was when had finished Solomon to build obj. the house of Yahweh and the house of the king and all the desire of Solomon which he delighted to do

9:2
and appeared Yahweh to Solomon a second time
just as he had appeared to him at Gibeon

9:3
and said Yahweh to him I have heard obj. your prayer and your supplication which you have sought favor before me
I have consecrated obj. this house which you have built
by putting my name there until perpetuity
and they will be my eyes and my heart there all the days

9:4
and you if you will walk before me just as he walked David your father in integrity of heart
and in uprightness
by doing according to all that I have commanded you
my statutes and my judgments you will keep

9:5
and I will establish obj. the throne of your kingdom over Israel for ever
just as I spoke on David your father saying
not it will be cut off to you a man from on the throne of Israel

9:6
if certainly if you will turn back ! you
and your descendants from after me and not you will keep commandments of my statutes
which I have set before you and you will walk and you will serve gods other
and you will bow down to them

9:7
and I will cut off obj. Israel from on the surface of the ground which I have given to them
and the house which I have consecrated for my name
I will cast out
from on my face and it will become Israel a byword
and a taunt among all the peoples

9:8
and this house it will be high most every one who passes by at it he will be appalled and he will hiss
and people will say concerning what? did he do Yahweh thus
to this land and to this house

9:9
and they will say on that they forsook obj. Yahweh their God who he brought out obj. their ancestors from the land of Egypt
and they took hold on gods other
and they bowed down to them
and they served them
therefore he has brought Yahweh on them obj. all the calamity this

9:10
and it was from the end of twenty years which he had built Solomon
obj. the two the houses
obj. the house of Yahweh and the house of the king

9:11
Hiram the king of Tyre he had supported obj. Solomon with wood of cedar
and with wood of cypresses
and with gold
to all his desire then he gave the king Solomon to Hiram twenty cities in the land of Galilee

9:12
and came out Hiram from Tyre to see obj. the cities which he had given to him Solomon
and not they were pleasing in his view

9:13
and he said what? are these cities which you have given to me
O my brother and someone called them the land of Cabul
until this day

9:14
and had sent Hiram to the king one hundred and twenty talents of gold

9:15
and this is the word of the forced labor which he raised the king Solomon to build obj. the house of Yahweh and his own house and the Millo
and the wall of Jerusalem and Hazor and Megiddo and Gezer

9:16
Pharaoh the king of Egypt he had gone up
and he had captured obj. Gezer
and he had burned it with fire
and the Canaanites who was dwelling in the city he had killed
and he had given it dowri to his daughter the wife of Solomon

9:17
and rebuilt Solomon obj. Gezer and Beth Horon lower

9:18
and Baalath and Tadmor in the wilderness in the land

9:19
and all the cities of storage which they belonged to Solomon
and the cities of the chariotry
and the cities of the horsemen
and the desire of Solomon which he desired to build in Jerusalem
and in Lebanon
and in all the land of his dominion

9:20
all the people which remained of the Amorites the Hittites the Perizzites the Hivites and the Jebusites
who not were of the people of Israel
they

9:21
their descendants who they were left after them in the land whom not they were able the people of Israel to totally destroy them
and raised them Solomon to forced labor of laboring until this day

9:22
and any of the people of Israel not he made Solomon a slave for they were the men of war
and his servants
and his officials
and his officers
and the commanders of his chariotry
and his horsemen

9:23
these were the leaders of the overseers who were over the work of Solomon
fifty and five hundred who ruled over the people who were doing the work

9:24
only the daughter of Pharaoh she went up from the city of David to her own house which he had built for her
then he built obj. the Millo

9:25
and offered up Solomon three times in the year burnt offerings and peace offerings on the altar which he had built for Yahweh
and he made smoke with it which was before Yahweh
and he completed obj. the house

9:26
and ships he made the king Solomon at Ezion Geber which is with Elath on the shore of the sea of reeds
in the land of Edom

9:27
and sent Hiram in the ships obj. his servants
men of ships who knew the sea with the servants of Solomon

9:28
and went toward Ophir
and they took from there gold four hundred and twenty talents
and they brought it to the king Solomon
