10:1
and it was after thus
and the king died of the people of Ammon
and reigned Hanun his son in his place

10:2
and said David I will do covenant loyalty with Hanun the son of Nahash just as he did his father with me covenant loyalty
and sent David to comfort him by the hand of his servants concerning his father
and came the servants of David the land of the people of Ammon

10:3
and said the leaders of the people of Ammon to Hanun their lord ¿ honoring is David obj. your father in your view
for he has sent to you comforters ¿ not in order to explore obj. the city
and to spy on it
and to overthrow it
has he sent David obj. his servants to you

10:4
and he took Hanun obj. the servants of David
and he shaved obj. half of their beard
and he cut off obj. their robes at the middle to their buttocks and he sent away them

10:5
and people told to David
and he sent to meet them
for they were the men humiliated very and said the king remain at Jericho until it will grow back your beard
and you will return

10:6
and saw the people of Ammon
that they had made themselves odious with David
and the people of Ammon sent
and they hired obj. Aram Beth Rehob and Aram Zobah twenty thousand foot soldiers
and the king of Maacah one thousand man
and the man of Tob two plus ten thousand man

10:7
and he heard
David and he sent obj. Joab and all the army the warriors

10:8
and went out the people of Ammon
and they deployed battle the entrance of the gate
and Aram Zobah and Rehob and the man of Tob
and Maacah to alone them were in the open country

10:9
and saw Joab that it was against him the face of the battle from before
and from behind and he chose some of all the chosen men of Israel
and he deployed them to meet Aram

10:10
and the rest of the people he put in the hand of Abishai his brother
and he deployed them to meet the people of Ammon

10:11
and he said if it will be strong too Aram for me and you will become of me
deliverance and if the people of Ammon they will be strong too for you and I will come to deliver you

10:12
be strong so we may show strong ourselves for our people and for the cities of our God
and Yahweh he will do the good in his view

10:13
and drew near Joab and the people which was with him for battle
in Aram and they fled from before him

10:14
and the people of Ammon they saw that it had fled Aram
and they fled from before Abishai
and the city went
and returned Joab from on the people of Ammon
and he came Jerusalem

10:15
and saw Aram that it was defeated
before Israel and they gathered themselves together

10:16
and he sent Hadadezer
and he brought out obj. Aram which was from the other side of the River
and they came Helam
and Shobach the commander of the army of Hadadezer was before them

10:17
and it was told to David
and he gathered obj. all Israel
and he passed over obj. the Jordan
and he came toward Helam
and deployed Aram to meet David
and they did battle with him

10:18
and fled Aram from before Israel
and killed David of Aram seven hundred charioteers
and forty thousand horsemen
and Shobach the commander of its army he struck down
and he died there

10:19
and they saw all the kings the servants of Hadadezer that they were defeated before Israel
and they made peace with Israel
and they served them
and were afraid Aram to deliver again obj. the people of Ammon
