11:1
and it was to the return of the year to the time of the going out of messengers and he sent David obj. Joab and his servants with him and all Israel
and they destroyed obj. the people of Ammon
and they laid siege on Rabbah
and David was remaining in Jerusalem

11:2
and it was to the time of the evening and he arose David from on his bed
and he walked about on the roof of the house of the king
and he saw a woman bathing from on the roof
and the woman
was good of appearance very

11:3
and sent David
and he enquired of the woman
and he said ¿ not is this Bathsheba the daughter of Eliam the wife of Uriah the Hittite

11:4
and David sent messengers and he took her
and she came to him
and he lay with her and she was purifying herself
from her uncleanness and she returned to her house

11:5
and she conceived
the woman and she sent and she told to David
and she said am pregnant I

11:6
and sent David to Joab
send to me obj. Uriah
the Hittite and sent Joab obj. Uriah to David

11:7
and came Uriah
to him and he asked David to the welfare of Joab
and to the welfare of the people
and to the welfare of the battle

11:8
and said David to Uriah go down to your house
and wash your feet
and went out Uriah from the house of the king
and it went out after him the gift of the king

11:9
and lay down Uriah the entrance of the house of the king with all the servants of his lord
and not he went down to his house

11:10
and people told to David saying not he has gone down Uriah to his house
and said David to Uriah ¿ not from a journey are you coming
why? not have you gone down to your house

11:11
and he said Uriah to David the ark
and Israel
and Judah are dwelling in booths
and my lord Joab
and the servants of my lord on the face of the open country are encamping
and I will I go? to my house to eat
and to drink
and to lie with my wife by the life of you and by the life of your self
if I will do obj. this thing

11:12
and said David to Uriah remain in this place this also day
and tomorrow I will let go you
and remained Uriah in Jerusalem on that day
and from the next day

11:13
and he summoned him David and he ate before him and he drank
and he made drunk him
and he went out in the evening to lie down on his bed with the servants of his lord
and to his house
not he went down

11:14
and it was in the morning
and wrote David a letter to Joab
and he sent it by the hand of Uriah

11:15
and he wrote in the letter saying set obj. Uriah to the front of the face of the battle severe
and you will turn back from after him and he will be struck down and he will die

11:16
and it was when watched Joab against the city and he put obj. Uriah
to the place where he knew that men of strength were there

11:17
and the men of the city went out
and they fought with Joab
and it fell some of the people some of the servants of David
and he died
also Uriah the Hittite

11:18
and he sent Joab
and he told to David obj. all the matters of the battle

11:19
and he commanded obj. the messenger saying when finishing you obj. all the matters of the battle to speak to the king

11:20
and it will be if it will rise the anger of the king
and he will say to you
why? did you draw near to the city to fight
¿ not did you know obj. this: they will shoot from on the wall

11:21
who? did he strike down obj. Abimelech the son of Jerub-Besheth ¿ not a woman did she throw on him a mill-stone an upper mill-stone from on the wall and he died in Thebez
why? did you draw near to the wall
and you will say
also your servant Uriah the Hittite he has died

11:22
and he went
the messenger and he came and he told to David obj. all that he had sent him Joab

11:23
and said the messenger to David
for they prevailed over us the men
and they came out against us the open country
and we were on them to the entrance of the gate

11:24
and shot arrows the archers to your servants from on the wall
and they have died some of the servants of the king and also your servant Uriah the Hittite
he has died

11:25
and said David to the messenger thus you will say to Joab may not it be displeasing in your view obj. this thing
that like this
and like this it devours the sword strengthen your battle against the city and tear down it
and encourage him

11:26
and heard the wife of Uriah
that he had died Uriah her husband
and she mourned on her husband

11:27
and it passed the mourning
and David sent
and he her gathered to his house
and she became of him a wife
and she bore to him
a son and was displeasing the thing which he had done David in the eyes of Yahweh
