14:1
and he perceived
Joab the son of Zeruiah that the heart of the king toward was Absalom

14:2
and sent Joab toward Tekoa
and he took from there a woman wise
and he said to her play the mourner please
and put on please garments of mourning
and may not you anoint yourself oil
and you will be like this woman days many who has been mourning on a dead person

14:3
and you will go to the king and you will speak to him according to this word and put Joab obj. the words
in her mouth

14:4
and said the woman Tekoite to the king
and she fell on her face the toward ground
and she bowed down
and she said save ! O king

14:5
and the king said to her what? is to you
and she said indeed am a woman a widow I
and he has died my husband

14:6
and belonged to your maidservant two sons and struggled together the two of them in the field
and there not was a deliverer between them
and struck him the one obj. the one
and he killed him

14:7
and there! it has risen up all the clan on your maidservant and they have said deliver up obj. the one who struck down his brother so we may put to death him for the life of his brother whom he killed
and let us destroy
also obj. the heir
and they will extinguish obj. my coal which it is left
to not to establish for my husband a name and a remnant on the surface of the ground

14:8
and said the king to the woman go to your house
and I will command on you

14:9
and said the woman Tekoite to the king be on me O my lord the king the iniquity
and on the house of my father and the king
and his throne
be innocent

14:10
and the king said the one who speaks to you and you will bring him to me
and not he will repeat again to touch you

14:11
and she said let him remember please the king obj. Yahweh your God from increasing the avenger of blood to destroy
and not they will destroy obj. my son
and he said by the life of Yahweh if it will fall one of the hairs of your son the toward ground

14:12
and said the woman her let speak please your maidservant to my lord the king
a word and he said speak

14:13
and said the woman
and why? have you planned like this on the people of God
and because has spoken the this king word like a guilty person
to not to bring back the king obj. banished his son

14:14
for certainly we will die
and we are like waters which are spilled the toward ground which not they will be gathered
and not he takes away God life and he plans
to not he will be cast out from him a banished one

14:15
and now when I have come to speak to the king my lord obj. this word
that they have made afraid me
the people and she said your maidservant let me speak please to the king perhaps he will do the king
obj. the word of his maidservant

14:16
for he will hear the king to deliver obj. his maidservant from the hand of the man
to destroy me and my son together from the inheritance of God

14:17
and she said your maidservant may it become please the word of my lord the king rest
for like the angel of God is so my lord the king to good hear and bad
and Yahweh your God
may he be with you

14:18
and the king answered
and he said to the woman
may not please you hide from me anything which I
am asking you and said the woman let him speak please my lord the king

14:19
and said the king ¿ is the hand of Joab with you in this all
and the woman answered
and she said by the life of your self O my lord the king if there is to go to the right
and to go to the left from all that he has spoken my lord the king for your servant Joab he commanded me
and he put in the mouth of your maidservant obj. all the words these

14:20
in order to change obj. the face of the matter he did your servant Joab
obj. this thing
and my lord is wise like the wisdom of the angel of God to know
obj. all that is in the land

14:21
and said the king to Joab here! please I do
obj. this thing and go bring back obj. the young man obj. Absalom

14:22
and fell Joab to his face the toward ground and he bowed down
and he blessed obj. the king
and said this Joab day he knows your servant that I have found favor in your view O my lord the king
that he has done the king obj. the word of your servant

14:23
and arose Joab
and went toward Geshur
and he brought obj. Absalom Jerusalem

14:24
and said the king he will turn to his house
and my face not he will see
and turned Absalom to his house
and the face of the king not he saw

14:25
and like Absalom not he was a man handsome in all Israel to praise exceedingly from the sole of his foot
and to his scalp not it was in him a blemish

14:26
and when shaved he obj. his head
and it was from the end of days to the days when he shaved
for it was heavy on him and he shaved it
and he weighed obj. the hair of his head two hundred shekels by the weight of the king

14:27
and they were born to Absalom three sons
and a daughter one and her name was Tamar
she was a woman beautiful of appearance

14:28
and dwelt Absalom in Jerusalem two years days
and the face of the king not he saw

14:29
and sent Absalom to Joab to send him to the king and not he was willing
to come to him and he sent again a second time and not he was willing to come

14:30
and he said to his servants see the portion of land of Joab is to my hand
and belongs to him there barley go
and set on fire it with fire
and set on fire the servants of Absalom obj. the portion of land with fire

14:31
and arose Joab
and he went to Absalom
the toward house and he said to him why? have they set on fire your servants obj. the portion of land which belongs to me with fire

14:32
and said Absalom to Joab here! I sent to you saying come here so let me send you to the king saying why? have I come from Geshur
was good for me still I was there
and therefore let me see the face of the king and if there in me is iniquity
and he will kill me

14:33
and he went Joab to the king
and he told to him
and he summoned to Absalom
and he came to the king
and he bowed down to him on his face the toward ground
before the king and kissed the king Absalom
