6:1
and he gathered again David obj. every chosen man in Israel thirty thousand

6:2
and he arose and he went David and all the people which was with him from Baalah of Judah
to bring up from there obj. the ark of God
which it is called the name the name of Yahweh of hosts who sits the cherubim on it

6:3
and they made to ride obj. the ark of God to a cart a new
and they carried it from the house of Abinadab which was on the hill
and Uzzah and Ahio the sons of Abinadab were leading obj. the new cart

6:4
and they carried it from the house of Abinadab which was on the hill with the ark of God
and Ahio was walking before the ark

6:5
and David
and all the house of Israel were playing before Yahweh on all wood of fir trees
and on harps
and on lyres
and on tambourines
and on rattles
and on cymbals

6:6
and they came to the threshing floor of Nacon
and he stretched out Uzzah to the ark of God
and he took hold on it for they had stumbled the oxen

6:7
and burned the anger of Yahweh on Uzzah
and he struck down him there God on the presumption
and he died there beside the ark of God

6:8
and it burned to David
on that he broken had out Yahweh a breaking out against Uzzah
and someone called that place Perez Uzzah until this day

6:9
and feared David obj. Yahweh on that day
and he said how? will it come to me the ark of Yahweh

6:10
and not he was willing David to turn aside to himself obj. the ark of Yahweh
to the city of David and turned aside it David the house of Obed- Edom the Gittite

6:11
and remained the ark of Yahweh the house of Obed- Edom the Gittite
three months
and blessed Yahweh obj. Obed- Edom and all his household

6:12
and it was told to the king David saying
Yahweh has blessed obj. the household of Obed- Edom and all that belongs to him
for sake of the ark of God
and David went
and he brought up obj. the ark of God from the house of Obed- Edom the city of David
with rejoicing

6:13
and it was that they had stepped the bearers of the ark of Yahweh six steps
and he sacrificed an ox and a fatling

6:14
and David was dancing with all strength before Yahweh
and David
was girded
an ephod of linen

6:15
and David and all the house of Israel were bringing up
obj. the ark of Yahweh
with shouting and with the sound of a trumpet

6:16
and was the ark of Yahweh
coming the city of David
and Michal the daughter of Saul she looked down through the window and she saw obj. the king David leaping
and dancing before Yahweh
and she despised him in her heart

6:17
and they brought obj. the ark of Yahweh
and they set it in its place in the midst of the tent which he had pitched for it David
and offered up David burnt offerings before Yahweh
and peace offerings

6:18
and finished David from offering up the burnt offering
and the peace offerings and he blessed obj. the people in the name of Yahweh of hosts

6:19
and he distributed to all the people to all the multitude of Israel to from a man
and unto a woman
to each a cake of bread one and a date-cake one and a raisin-cake
one and it went all the people each to his own house

6:20
and returned David
to bless obj. his household
and came out Michal the daughter of Saul to meet David
and she said how! he has honored this himself day of the king of Israel who he has uncovered this himself day to the eyes of the maidservants of his servants
as uncovers himself shamelessly one of the worthless men

6:21
and said David to Michal
before Yahweh who he chose me more than your father
and more than all his household to appoint me ruler over the people of Yahweh over Israel
and I will play
before Yahweh

6:22
and I will demean myself still more than this
and I will be lowly in my own eyes
and with the maidservants whom you have said with them I will be honored

6:23
and to Michal the daughter of Saul not it belonged to her a child until the day of her death
