40:1
and it was after these things
they sinned the cup bearer of the king of Egypt and the baker to their master to the king of Egypt

40:2
and was angry Pharaoh towards two of his officials towards the chief of the cup bearers
toward and the chief of the bakers

40:3
and he put them in the custody of the house of the commander of the bodyguards
into the house of the prison the place where Joseph
was imprisoned there

40:4
and appointed the commander of the bodyguards obj. Joseph with them
and he served them
and they were days in custody

40:5
and they dreamed a dream both of them his own each dream in a night one each
according to the interpretation of his dream
the cup bearer and the baker who belonged to the king of Egypt who were imprisoned
in the house of the prison

40:6
and Joseph came to them in the morning
and he saw them
and were they
looking dejected

40:7
and he asked obj. the officials of Pharaoh who were with him in the custody of the house of his master
saying why? are your faces sad
this day

40:8
and they said to him a dream we dreamed
and is one who interprets there not it
and Joseph said to them ¿ not belong to God do interpretations recount it please to me

40:9
and recounted the chief of the cup bearers obj. his dream to Joseph
and he said to him in my dream
and there! a vine was before me

40:10
and were on the vine
three branches
and it when it was budding it went up its blossom
they ripened its clusters grapes

40:11
and the cup of Pharaoh was in my hand
and I took obj. the grapes
and I squeezed them into the cup of Pharaoh
and I put obj. the cup on the palm of Pharaoh

40:12
and Joseph said to him this is its interpretation the three the branches
are three days
they

40:13
in again three days he will lift up Pharaoh obj. your head
and he will restore you to your office and you will put the cup of Pharaoh in his hand
according to the custom former when you were cup his bearer

40:14
that except you have remembered me with you when it will go well for you
and you will do please with me
loyalty and you will bring to remembrance me to Pharaoh
and you will bring out me from this house

40:15
for certainly I was stolen from the land of the Hebrews
and also here not I have done anything that they have put me in the pit

40:16
and saw the chief of the bakers that good he had interpreted
and he said to Joseph also I in my dream
and there! three baskets of white bread were on my head

40:17
and was in the basket upper some of all the food of Pharaoh
the work of a baker and the birds was eating them from the basket from on my head

40:18
and Joseph answered
and he said this is its interpretation the three the baskets are three days they

40:19
in again three days he will lift up Pharaoh obj. your head from on you
and he will hang you on a tree
and will eat the birds obj. your flesh from on you

40:20
and it was on the day third the day of being born obj. Pharaoh and he made a feast for all his servants
and he lifted up obj. the head of the chief of the cup bearers and the head of the chief of the bakers
in among his servants

40:21
and he restored obj. the chief of the cup bearers to cup his bearing
and put the cup on the palm of Pharaoh

40:22
and the chief of the bakers
he hanged just as he had interpreted for them Joseph

40:23
and not he remembered the chief of the cup bearers obj. Joseph and he forgot him
