27:1
and it was for he was old Isaac
and they were too dim his eyes for seeing
and he summoned obj. Esau his son old
and he said to him O my son
and he said to him here am I

27:2
and he said here! please I am old
not I know the day of my death

27:3
and therefore take up please your weapons your quiver
and your bow
and go out the field and hunt ! for me wild game

27:4
and prepare for me savory food just as I love and bring it ! to me
so let me eat it in order that it may bless you my self
before I will die

27:5
and Rebekah was listening when spoke Isaac to Esau his son
and went Esau to the field to hunt wild game to bring it

27:6
and Rebekah she said to Jacob her son saying
here! I have heard obj. your father speaking to Esau your brother saying

27:7
bring ! to me wild game and prepare for me savory food so let me eat it
so I may bless you before Yahweh before my death

27:8
and therefore O my son listen to my voice
to that which I am commanding you

27:9
go please to the flock
and fetch for me from there two kids of goats
good
so I may prepare them savory food for your father
just as he loves

27:10
and you will bring it to your father and he will eat it
in order this that he may bless you before his death

27:11
and said Jacob to Rebekah his mother
here! Esau my brother is a man hairy
and I
am a man smooth

27:12
perhaps he will feel me my father and I will be in his view like a mocker
and I will bring on myself a curse and not a blessing

27:13
and she said to him his mother be on me your curse
O my son only listen to my voice
and go fetch them for me

27:14
and he went and he fetched them
and he brought them to his mother
and she prepared his mother savory food just as
he loved his father

27:15
and took Rebekah obj. the clothes of Esau her old son of the desirableness
which were with her in the house and she clothed obj. Jacob her young son

27:16
and the skins of the kids of the goats
she clothed on his hands and on the smooth part of his neck

27:17
and she put obj. the savory food and the bread which she had prepared
in the hand of Jacob her son

27:18
and he went to his father
and said O my father
and he said here am I who? are you O my son

27:19
and said Jacob to his father I am Esau your firstborn
I have done just as you said
to me arise please sit ! and eat ! some of wild my game in order that may bless me your self

27:20
and said Isaac to his son what? this have you hastened to find it
O my son and he said
for he made happen Yahweh your God before me

27:21
and said Isaac to Jacob
draw near ! please so I may feel you O my son ¿ are you this my son Esau or? not

27:22
and drew near Jacob to Isaac his father
and he felt him
and said the voice is the voice of Jacob
and the hands
are the hands of Esau

27:23
and not he recognized him
for they were his hands like the hands of Esau his brother hairy and he blessed him

27:24
and he said are you? this my son Esau
and he said I

27:25
and he said bring it near ! to me so let me eat some of the wild game of my son so that it may bless you
my self and he brought it near to him and he ate
and he brought to him wine
and he drank

27:26
and Isaac said to him his father draw near ! please and kiss ! me O my son

27:27
and he drew near and he kissed him
and he smelled obj. the smell of his clothes
and he blessed him
and he said see the smell of my son is like the smell of a field which he has blessed it
Yahweh

27:28
and may he give to you God some of the dew of the heavens and some of the fatness of
the earth and abundance of grain and new wine

27:29
may they serve you peoples and may they bow down to you peoples
be lord to your brothers so may they bow down to you the sons of your mother
those who curse you be cursed and those who bless you be blessed

27:30
and it was just as he had finished Isaac to bless obj. Jacob
and it was surely certainly he had gone out Jacob
from with the face of Isaac his father
and Esau his brother he came from his hunting

27:31
and he prepared also he savory food
and he brought it to his father
and he said to his father let him arise my father and let him eat some of the wild game of his son
in order that may bless me your self

27:32
and Isaac said to him his father who? are you
and he said I am your son your firstborn Esau

27:33
and trembled Isaac great trembling up to muchness
and he said who? then is he who hunted wild game
and he brought it to me
and I ate some of everything before you came
and I blessed him
also blessed he will be

27:34
when heard Esau obj. the words of his father and he cried a cry great
and bitter up to muchness and he said to father of his bless me also me O my father

27:35
and he said he came your brother with deceit
and he took your blessing

27:36
and he said ¿ for did someone call his name Jacob
and he has supplanted me this two times
obj. my birthright he took
and here! now he has taken my blessing
and he said ¿ not have you reserved for me a blessing

27:37
and Isaac answered
and he said to Esau here! lord I have appointed him to you and all his brothers I have given to him to servants
and grain and new wine I have sustained him
and for you then
what? will I do O my son

27:38
and said Esau to his father ¿ does a blessing one it belong to you O my father bless me also me
O my father and lifted up Esau his voice
and he wept

27:39
and answered Isaac his father
and he said to him there! away from the fatness of the earth it will be your dwelling
and away from the dew of the heavens above

27:40
and on your sword you will live and your brother you will serve
and it will be just as you will be restless
and you will tear off his yoke from on your neck

27:41
and bore a grudge against Esau obj. Jacob on the blessing which he had blessed him his father
and said Esau in his heart they will draw near the days of the mourning of my father
and I will kill obj. Jacob my brother

27:42
and it was told to Rebekah obj. the words of Esau her old son
and she sent and she summoned Jacob her young son
and she said to him here! Esau your brother
is comforting himself to you by killing you

27:43
and therefore O my son listen to my voice
and arise flee for yourself to Laban my brother toward Haran

27:44
and you will remain with him days one until that it will turn back the anger of your brother

27:45
until turns back the anger of your brother from you and he will forget obj. that which you did to him
and I will send
and I will fetch you from there why? will I be bereaved also both of you a day one

27:46
and said Rebekah to Isaac
I loathe my life because of the daughters of Heth
if is taking Jacob a wife from the daughters of Heth like these from the daughters of the land why? belongs to me
life
