7:1
and just as finished Solomon to pray and the fire it came down from the heavens
and consumed the burnt offering
and the sacrifices
and the glory of Yahweh
it filled obj. the house

7:2
and not they were able the priests to go into the house of Yahweh
for it filled the glory of Yahweh obj. the house of Yahweh

7:3
and all the people of Israel were seeing when came down the fire
and the glory of Yahweh was over the house
and they bowed down face of the toward ground on the pavement and they bowed down
and to give thanks to Yahweh for he is good
for is for ever
covenant of his loyalty

7:4
and the king and all the people were sacrificing sacrifices
before Yahweh

7:5
and sacrificed the king Solomon obj. the sacrifice of cattle twenty and two thousand and sheep
one hundred and twenty thousand
and they dedicated obj. the house of God the king and all the people

7:6
and the priests on their duties were standing and the Levites with the instruments of song of Yahweh which he had made David the king to give thanks to Yahweh for is for ever covenant of his loyalty
when praised David by their hand
and the priests were blowing a trumpet before them
and all Israel were standing

7:7
and consecrated Solomon obj. the middle of the courtyard which was before the house of Yahweh
for he offered there the burnt offerings and the fat of the peace offerings
for the altar of bronze which he had made Solomon
not it was able to contain obj. the burnt offering and the grain offering and the fat

7:8
and Solomon observed obj. the festival at the time that seven days
and all Israel was with him an assembly
great very from Lebo Hamath to the wadi of Egypt

7:9
and they observed on the day eighth an assembly
for the dedication of the altar they had observed seven days
and the festival
seven days

7:10
and on day twenty and three of the month seventh
he sent away obj. the people to their tents joyful and good of heart
on the good which he had done Yahweh for David
and for Solomon
and for Israel his people

7:11
and finished Solomon obj. the house of Yahweh
and the house of the king and every thing which was coming on the heart of Solomon to do in the house of Yahweh
and in own his house
he made successful

7:12
and appeared Yahweh to Solomon in the night
and he said to him I have heard obj. your prayer
and I have this chosen place for myself for a house of sacrifice

7:13
here! I will shut up the heavens and not it will be rain
and here! I will command to the grasshopper
to devour the land and if I will send pestilence among my people

7:14
so they may humble themselves my people which it has been called my name on them so they may pray and they may seek my face
so they may turn from their wicked ways
and I will hear from the heavens
so I may forgive their sin
so I may heal obj. their land

7:15
now my eyes they will be open
and my ears attentive to the prayer of this place

7:16
and now I have chosen and I have consecrated obj. this house to be my name there until perpetuity
and they will be my eyes and my heart there all the days

7:17
and you if you will walk before me just as he walked David your father
and to do according to all that I have commanded you
and my statutes and my judgments you will observe

7:18
and I will establish obj. the throne of your kingdom just as I made to David your father saying
not it will be cut off to you a man who rules over Israel

7:19
and if you will turn away ! you
and you will forsake my statutes and my commandments which I have set
before you and you will go and you will serve gods other
and you will bow down to them

7:20
and I will pluck up them from on my land which I have given to them
and this house which I have consecrated for my name
I will throw away from on my face and I will make it into a byword
and into a taunt among all the peoples

7:21
and this house which it was high most to every one who passes by at it he will be appalled
and he will say how? did he do Yahweh thus
to this land and to this house

7:22
and people will say on that they forsook obj. Yahweh the God of their ancestors who he brought out them from the land of Egypt
and they took hold on gods other
and they bowed down to them
and they served them
therefore he has brought on them obj. all the calamity this
