16:1
in year thirty and six of the reign of Asa he came up Baasha the king of Israel on Judah
and he built obj. Ramah
to not surely permitting one going out or one coming in to Asa the king of Judah

16:2
and brought out Asa silver and gold from the treasuries of the house of Yahweh
and the house of the king and he sent it to Ben Hadad the king of Aram
who dwelt in Damascus saying

16:3
a covenant be between me
and between you
and between my father
and between your father
here! I have sent to you silver and gold
go break your covenant with Baasha the king of Israel
so he may go up from on me

16:4
and he listened Ben Hadad to the king Asa
and he sent obj. the commanders of the armies which belonged to him against the cities of Israel
and they struck down obj. Ijon and Dan and Abel Maim
and all the stores of the cities of Naphtali

16:5
and it was when heard Baasha and he ceased from building obj. Ramah
and he caused to cease obj. his work

16:6
and Asa the king he took obj. all Judah
and they carried off obj. the stones of Ramah and its wood which he had built
Baasha and he built with them obj. Geba and Mizpah

16:7
and at that time he came Hanani the seer to Asa
the king of Judah
and he said to him because depending you on the king of Aram
and not you depended on Yahweh God your
therefore it has escaped the army of the king of Aram from your hand

16:8
¿ not the Cushites and the Libyans were they an army for multitude chariotry
and horsemen to abundance exceedingly
and because depending you on Yahweh
he gave them in your hand

16:9
for Yahweh his eyes are roving about in all the earth to show strong himself with those who their heart is complete to him
you have acted foolishly on this
for from now there with you will be wars

16:10
and he was angry Asa against the seer
and he put him the house of the stocks for in a rage with him on this
and crushed Asa some of the people at that time

16:11
and there! the matters of Asa former
and latter
there they are written on the scroll of the kings of Judah
and Israel

16:12
and became sick Asa in year thirty and nine of his reign in his feet was to upwards
his sickness
and also in his sickness not he sought obj. Yahweh for the physicians

16:13
and lay down Asa with his ancestors
and he died in year forty and one of his reigning

16:14
and people buried him in his own grave which he had dug for himself in the city of David
and they made lie him in the lying place which he had filled spices and kinds mixed
as ointment of work and they burned for him a burning great up to muchness
