14:1
and did Asa the good and the right in the eyes of Yahweh his God

14:2
and he removed obj. the altars of foreignness
and the high places and he broke down obj. the sacred pillars
and he cut down obj. the Asherah poles

14:3
and he said to Judah to seek obj. Yahweh the God of their ancestors
and to observe
the law and the commandment

14:4
and he removed from all the cities of Judah obj. the high places and the incense altars
and was at peace the kingdom before him

14:5
and he built cities of fortification in Judah
for it was at peace the land and there not with him was war in these years
for he had given rest of Yahweh to him

14:6
and he said to Judah let us build obj. the cities these and let us surround them wall
and towers gates
and bars
still it the land is before us for we have sought obj. Yahweh our God
we sought him
and he has given rest to us from round about and they built
and they prospered

14:7
and it belonged to Asa an army bearing body shields and spears
from Judah three hundred thousand
and of Benjamin those who carry a shield and those who bend a bow two hundred and eighty
thousand these all were mighty men of strength

14:8
and he came out against them Zerah the Cushite with an army a thousand thousand
and chariots
three hundred and he came to Mareshah

14:9
and went out Asa before him
and they drew up in formation battle in the valley of Zephathah to Mareshah

14:10
and called out Asa to Yahweh his God and he said
O Yahweh there not is with you to help between great and not strength
help us O Yahweh our God for on you we depend
and in your name we have come on the multitude this
O Yahweh are our God you may not he retain with you a man

14:11
and defeated Yahweh obj. the Cushites before Asa
and before Judah and they fled the Cushites

14:12
and pursued them Asa and the people which was with him to Gerar
and it fell of the Cushites to not belonged to them preservation for they had been broken before Yahweh
and before his army and they carried off booty much very

14:13
and they struck down obj. all the cities around Gerar
for it was the dread of Yahweh on them and they plundered obj. all the cities for plunder much
it was in them

14:14
and also the tents of livestock they struck down
and they took captive sheep to abundance and camels
and they returned Jerusalem
