1:1
in year three of the reign of Jehoiakim the king of Judah he came Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon Jerusalem
and he laid siege on it

1:2
and he gave the Lord in hand of his obj. Jehoiakim the king of Judah
and some of the end of the vessels of the house of God and he brought them the land of Shinar the house of his god
and the vessels he brought the house of the treasury of his god

1:3
and said the king to Ashpenaz
the chief of his officials to bring some of the people of Israel
and some of the offspring of royalty
and some of the nobles

1:4
youths whom not was in them any blemish and good of appearance
and having insight in all wisdom and knowing knowledge
and understanding knowledge
and whom ability was in them to stand in the palace of the king
and to teach them the writing
and the tongue of the Chaldeans

1:5
and he assigned to them the king the matter of a day in its day some of the deli- -cacies of the king
and some of the wine of his drink
and to bring up them
years three and from their end
they will stand
before the king

1:6
and he was among them from the people of Judah Daniel Hananiah Mishael and Azariah

1:7
and he assigned to them the chief of the officials names
and he assigned to Daniel Belteshazzar
and to Hananiah Shadrach
and to Mishael Meshach and to Azariah
Abednego

1:8
and set Daniel on his heart that not he defiled himself with the delicacies of the king
and with the wine of his drink and he requested from the chief of the officials that not he will defile himself

1:9
and gave God obj. Daniel favor
and compassion before the chief of the officials

1:10
and said the chief of the officials to Daniel
am fearing I obj. my master the king who he has assigned obj. your food
and your drink
that why? will he see obj. your faces looking thin more than the youths who are about your age
and you will endanger obj. my head to the king

1:11
and said Daniel to the guardian whom he had assigned the chief of the officials
over Daniel Hananiah Mishael and Azariah

1:12
put to the test please obj. your servants
days ten so let people give to us some of the vegetables so we may eat
and water so we may drink

1:13
and they may appear before you our appearance
and the appearance of the youths who are eating obj. the delicacies of the king
and just as you will see
deal with your servants

1:14
and he listened to them to this thing
and he put to the test them days ten

1:15
and from the end of days ten it their appeared good appearance
and fat of flesh more than all the youths who were eating
obj. the delicacies of the king

1:16
and was the guardian taking away obj. their delicacies
and the wine of their drink and giving to them
vegetables

1:17
and these youths the four of them
God gave to them knowledge and insight in all writing and wisdom
and Daniel he understood every vision and dreams

1:18
and from the end of the days which he had said the king to bring them
and brought them the chief of the officials before Nebuchadnezzar

1:19
and he spoke with them the king
and not he was found any of all of them like Daniel Hananiah Mishael and Azariah
and they stood before the king

1:20
and every matter of wisdom of understanding which he sought from them
the king and he found them ten hands above all the soothsayer-priests the conjurers
who were in all his kingdom

1:21
and was Daniel until year one of Cyrus the king
