49:1
of the people of Ammon thus he says Yahweh ¿ do children not belong to Israel
or? does an heir not belongs to it why? has he dispossessed Milcom obj. Gad
and his people in its cities has it dwelt?

49:2
therefore here! days are coming the utterance of Yahweh and I will sound aloud against Rabbah of the people of Ammon a shout of battle and it will become a mound of desolation
and its daughters
with fire they will be kindled
and will dispossess Israel obj. those who dispossessed it
he says Yahweh

49:3
wail O Heshbon for it has been devastated Ai cry out O daughters of Rabbah
gird yourselves sackcloth
mourn
and run to and fro among the walls
for Milcom in exile he will go his priests and his officials together

49:4
why? do you boast in the valleys is flowing your valley O daughter apostate
who trusts in her treasures who? will he come against me

49:5
here I am about to bring on you terror the utterance of the Lord Yahweh of hosts
from all around you and you will be driven away everyone before it and not one who gathers together belongs to the fugitive

49:6
and after thus I will turn back obj. the captivity of the people of Ammon the utterance of Yahweh

49:7
of Edom thus he says Yahweh of hosts ¿ is there not still wisdom
in Teman has it been lost? counsel from understanding people
has it been corrupted? their wisdom

49:8
flee be turned back make deep to dwell O inhabitants of Dedan
for the disaster of Esau I will bring on it a time when I will visit it

49:9
if grape gatherers they came to you
not will they leave? gleanings if thieves in the night they destroyed their sufficiency

49:10
for I will strip bare obj. Esau I will uncover obj. hiding its places
and it will hide itself
not it will be able it will be devastated its offspring
and its relatives
and its neighbors
and there not will be it

49:11
leave ! your fatherless I will preserve them alive and your widows
on me let them rely

49:12
for thus he says Yahweh there! those who not their sentence was to drink the cup completely they will drink it
and you he
completely will you be exempt from punishment?
not you will be exempt from punishment
for certainly you will drink it

49:13
for by myself I swear the utterance of Yahweh that a waste a reproach a desolation
and a curse it will become Bozrah
and all its cities they will become ruins of perpetuity

49:14
a report I have heard from with Yahweh
and an envoy among the nations has been sent gather together
and come on it and rise up for battle

49:15
for here! small I will make you among the nations despised among humankind

49:16
your horror it has deceived you the arrogance of your heart
O dweller in the clefts of the rock O occupant of the heights of a hill
for you will high make like eagle your nest
from there I will bring down you the utterance of Yahweh

49:17
and will become Edom a horror
every one who passes by at it he will be appalled and he may hiss on all its wounds

49:18
like the overthrow of Sodom and Gomorrah and its neighbors he says Yahweh
not he will dwell there anyone
and not he will sojourn in it a child of humankind

49:19
there! like a lion which it goes up from the thickets of the Jordan to pastureland of an ever-flowing stream
for I will act in a moment I will cause to run it from on it
and whoever is chosen to it I will appoint for who? is like me
and who? will he summon me
and who? this is a shepherd who he will stand before me

49:20
therefore hear the plan of Yahweh which he has planned against Edom
and his purposes which he has purposed against the inhabitants of Teman
if not people will drag away them the young ones of the flock
if not he will devastate on them their pastureland

49:21
from the sound of falling they it will shake the earth of the calling out at the sea of reeds
it will be heard its sound

49:22
there! like eagle someone will ascend and he may swoop down
so he may spread out his wings over Bozrah
and will be the heart of the warriors of Edom on that day like the heart of a woman in labor

49:23
of Damascus it will be ashamed Hamath and Arpad
for bad news they have heard they will melt away is in the sea anxiety to be quiet
not it will be able

49:24
it will be disheartened Damascus it will turn back to flee
and panic it will take hold distress and pains it will seize it like woman giving birth

49:25
how! not it has been forsaken a city of praise the town of my joy

49:26
therefore they will its young fall men in its open places
and all the men of war they will be silenced in that day of the utterance of Yahweh of hosts

49:27
and I will kindle a fire at the wall of Damascus and it will consume the fortresses of Ben Hadad

49:28
of Kedar
and of the kingdoms of Hazor which he attacked Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon thus
he says Yahweh arise go up against Kedar
and devastate obj. the people of the east

49:29
their tents and their flocks people will take away
tent of their curtains and all their equipment and their camels they will carry off for themselves
and people will call out to them terror is from round about

49:30
flee take flight exceedingly make deep to dwell O inhabitants of Hazor the utterance of Yahweh
that he has planned on you Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon a plan
and he has purposed on you a purpose

49:31
arise go up against a nation at ease which dwells to security the utterance of Yahweh not a pair of gates
and not a bar belong to it
alone they dwell

49:32
and they will become their camels spoil and the abundance of their livestock plunder
and I will scatter them to every wind those who are cut off of the corner
and from all its sides I will bring obj. their disaster the utterance of Yahweh

49:33
and will become Hazor a habitation of jackals a desolation until perpetuity
not he will dwell there anyone
and not he will sojourn in it a child of humankind

49:34
which it came the word of Yahweh to Jeremiah the prophet concerning Elam
at the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah the king of Judah saying

49:35
thus he says Yahweh of hosts here I am about to break
obj. the bow of Elam
the beginning of their strength

49:36
and I will bring against Elam four winds from the four the ends of the heavens
and I will scatter them to all these winds
and not it will be the nation where not it will go there the outcasts of Elam

49:37
and I will shatter obj. Elam before their enemies
and before those who seek their life and I will bring on them calamity obj. the burning of my anger
the utterance of Yahweh
and I will send after them obj. the sword until have made an end of I them

49:38
and I will set my throne in Elam
and I will destroy from there king and officials the utterance of Yahweh

49:39
and it will be at the end of the days I will turn back obj. the captivity of Elam the utterance of Yahweh
