11:1
the word which it came to Jeremiah from with Yahweh saying

11:2
hear obj. the words of this covenant
and you will speak them to everyone of Judah and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem

11:3
and you will say to them thus he says Yahweh the God of Israel
is cursed the person who not he will hear obj. the words of this covenant

11:4
which I commanded obj. your ancestors on the day brought out I them from the land of Egypt from the furnace of iron saying listen to my voice and you will do them
according to all that I will command you
and you will become for me a people and I
I will become for you God

11:5
so as to carry out obj. the oath which I swore to your ancestors to give to them a land flowing of milk and honey
like this day and I answered and I said amen O Yahweh

11:6
and said Yahweh to me proclaim obj. these all words in the cities of Judah
and in the streets of Jerusalem saying
hear obj. the words of this covenant
and you will do them

11:7
for certainly I warned your ancestors on the day brought up I them from the land of Egypt
and until the day this
rising early and warning saying
listen to my voice

11:8
and not they listened
and not they inclined obj. their ear and they walked everyone in the stubbornness of own their heart evil
and I brought on them obj. all the words of this covenant which I commanded to do and not they did

11:9
and said Yahweh to me it has been found a conspiracy among everyone of Judah
and among the inhabitants of Jerusalem

11:10
they have returned to the iniquities of their ancestors former who they refused to hear obj. my words
and they have walked after gods other to serve them they have broken the house of Israel
and the house of Judah obj. my covenant which I made with their ancestors

11:11
therefore thus he says Yahweh
here I am about to bring to them a calamity which not they will be able
to go out from it and they will cry out to me and not I will listen to them

11:12
and will go the cities of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem
and they will cry out to the gods which they are making smoke to them
and certainly not they will deliver them at the time of their calamity

11:13
for the number of your cities they are your gods O Judah
and the number of the streets of Jerusalem you have made altars to the shameful thing altars
to make smoke to Baal

11:14
and you may not you pray for this people
and may not you lift up for them a cry of entreaty and a prayer
for not I will be listening at the time call out they to me for their calamity

11:15
what? to my beloved one in my house doing it plan the many people
and flesh of holiness
they will pass away from on you for your wickedness
then you will rejoice

11:16
an olive tree luxuriant beautiful of fruit of form
Yahweh called your name
to the sound of a great rainstorm he has kindled a fire on it and they are bad its branches

11:17
and Yahweh of hosts who planted you
he has spoken on you evil on account of the evil of the house of Israel
and the house of Judah which they have done for themselves to provoke to anger me
by making smoke to Baal

11:18
and Yahweh he made known to me
and I knew !
then you showed me their deeds

11:19
and I had been like a lamb a tame one which it is led to slaughter
and not I knew that on me they had planned plans let us destroy the tree with its bread and let us cut off him from the land of the living
and his name not may it be remembered again

11:20
and O Yahweh of hosts who judges righteousness who tests kidneys
and heart
let me see your vengeance from them for to you I have made known obj. my case

11:21
therefore thus he says Yahweh on the people of Anathoth who are seeking obj. your life saying
not you must prophesy in the name of Yahweh
and not you will die by our hand

11:22
therefore thus he says Yahweh of hosts
here I am about to visit judgment on them the young men they will die by the sword their sons
and their daughters they will die by famine

11:23
and a remnant
not it will belong to them for I will bring calamity to the people of Anathoth
the year of their punishment
