8:1
at that time of the utterance of Yahweh people will bring out the bones of the kings of Judah and the bones of its officials and the bones of the priests and the bones of the prophets and the bones of the inhabitants of Jerusalem
from their graves

8:2
and they will spread out them to the sun
and to the moon
and to all the host of the heavens which they loved them and which they served them and which they walked after them
and which they consulted them
and which they bowed down to them
not they will be gathered and not they will be buried
dung on the surface of the ground they will become

8:3
and it will be chosen death more than life by all the remnant which remain
from the evil family this
in all the places which remain where I have banished them there the utterance of Yahweh of hosts

8:4
and you will say to them thus he says Yahweh ¿ do people fall
and not do they stand up? or? does anyone turn away
and not does he return?

8:5
why? has it turned this away people of Jerusalem
apostasy enduring they have kept hold on deceitfulness they have refused to return

8:6
I have paid attention and I have heard right not they speak there not is anyone who relents on his wickedness
saying what? have I done
all of it is turning in their own course like a horse which rushes in the battle

8:7
also a stork in the heavens it knows appointed its times
and a turtle-dove and a swift and a crane they keep the time of coming they
and my people not they know the ordinance of Yahweh

8:8
how? will you say are wise we
and the law of Yahweh is with us
truly here! into falsehood it has made it a stylus of falsehood of scribes

8:9
they will be put to shame wise people
they will be dismayed
and they have been captured
there! the word of Yahweh they have rejected and wisdom of what? belongs to them

8:10
therefore I will give their wives to others their fields to those who dispossess
for from the small and unto the great
all of it is gaining unjust gain from prophet
and unto priest
all of it
is doing falsehood

8:11
and they have healed the fracture of the daughter of my people on a trifling thing saying
peace and there not is peace

8:12
are they ashamed? that an abomination
they have done
also at all not they are ashamed and to be ashamed not they know
therefore they will fall among those who fall at the time of their punishment they will stumble
he says Yahweh

8:13
surely I will make an end of them
the utterance of Yahweh there not will be grapes on the vine and there not will be figs on the fig tree and the leafage it will wither
and I gave to them they will pass away them

8:14
concerning what? are we sitting
gather yourselves so we may go into the cities of fortification
so we may perish there for Yahweh our God he has silenced us and he has given to drink us water of poison for we have sinned to Yahweh

8:15
we waited eagerly for peace and there not was good
for a time of healing and there! terror

8:16
from Dan it has been heard the snorting of his horses from the sound of the neighings of his mighty horses it has shaken
all the land and they have come and they have consumed the land and what fills it the city and the inhabitants in it

8:17
for here I am about to send among you snakes vipers which there not for them
is a charm and they will bite you the utterance of Yahweh

8:18
my cheerfulness on sorrow on me my heart is faint

8:19
there! the sound of the cry for help of the daughter of my people from a land of distance
¿ is Yahweh not in Zion
or? is its king not in it why? have they provoked to anger me by their idols by vanities of foreignness

8:20
it has passed harvest
it has come to an end summer
and we
not we have been saved

8:21
on the brokenness of the daughter of my people I have been broken I am in mourning desolation it has taken hold of me

8:22
¿ balm is there not in Gilead
or? a physician is there not there for why? not has it come up
the healing of the daughter of my people

8:23
who? will he give my head was water
and my eye was a fountain of tears
so I may bewail by day and night those slain of the daughter of my people
