22:1
thus he said Yahweh go down the house of the king of Judah
and you will speak there obj. the word this

22:2
and you will say hear the word of Yahweh O king of Judah who sits on the throne of David
you and your servants and your people who come in these gates

22:3
thus he says Yahweh do justice and righteousness
and deliver one who has been robbed from the hand of an oppressor
and sojourner fatherless and widow may not you maltreat may not you treat violently
and innocent blood may not you shed in this place

22:4
that except certainly you will do obj. the thing this
and they will go in the gates of the house this kings who sit for David on his throne who ride in chariots
and on horses
he and his servants and his people

22:5
and if not you will listen to obj. the words these
by myself I swear the utterance of Yahweh
that a ruin it will become this house

22:6
for thus he says Yahweh on the house of the king of Judah
are Gilead you to me
the top of Lebanon
if not I will make you a wilderness cities
which not they are inhabited

22:7
and I will consecrate on you destroyers everyone
and his weapons
and will cut down the choicest of your cedars
and they will cast them on the fire

22:8
and they will pass by nations many at this city
and they will say each to his neighbor
concerning what? did he do Yahweh thus to the great city this

22:9
and they will say on that they forsook obj. the covenant of Yahweh their God
and they bowed down to gods other
and they served them

22:10
may not you weep for the dead
and may not you show sympathy to him weep continually for one who is about to go away
for not he will return again
and he will see obj. the land of his kindred

22:11
for thus he says Yahweh to Shallum the son of Josiah the king of Judah who is reigning in place of Josiah his father
who he went forth from this place not he will return there again

22:12
for in the place where they took into exile him
there he will die and this land not he will see again

22:13
woe to! one who builds his house with not righteousness
and upper his rooms with not justice by fellow-his citizen he works without paying
and his wages not he gives to him

22:14
the one who says I will build for myself a house of size
and upper rooms spacious and he will tear for himself my windows
and paneled with cedar
and he will smear it with vermilion

22:15
¿ are you king for you are competing in cedar
your father ¿ not did he eat and did he drink? and did he do? justice and righteousness
then it was well for him

22:16
he defended the cause of the poor and the needy
then was well ¿ not is that the knowledge me the utterance of Yahweh

22:17
that are not your eyes and your heart
that
except on unjust your gain
and on the blood of the innocent person to shed it
and on oppression
and on extortion to do it

22:18
therefore thus he says Yahweh to Jehoiakim the son of Josiah the king of Judah
not people will mourn for him
alas! O my brother and alas! O sister not people will mourn for him
alas! O lord and alas! his splendor

22:19
the burial of a donkey he will be buried
people will drag and people will throw out from beyond the gates of Jerusalem

22:20
go up Lebanon and cry out and in Bashan give forth your voice
and cry out from Abarim for they have been broken all your lovers

22:21
I spoke to you in your prosperity you said
not I will listen
this has been your way since your youth that not you have listened to my voice

22:22
all your shepherds it will shepherd a wind and your lovers
in captivity they will go
for then you will be ashamed and you will be humiliated from all your wickedness

22:23
O you who dwell in Lebanon who is nested among the cedars how! you will groan when will come to you labor-pains anguish
like woman giving birth

22:24
by the life of me the utterance of Yahweh
that except he will be Coniah the son of Jehoiakim the king of Judah a signet-ring
on the hand of my right
for from there I will pull off you

22:25
and I will give you in the hand of those who seek your life
and in the hand of those whom you are fearful of them
and in the hand of Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon
and in the hand of the Chaldeans

22:26
and I will throw out you and your mother who she bore you
to the land another where not you were born
there and there you will die

22:27
and to the land where they will be lifting obj. their desire
to return there toward there
not they will return

22:28
¿ a pot despised smashed is this man of Coniah
or? a vessel which there not is pleasure in it why? have they been thrown out he and his offspring
and have they been thrown? to the land which not they knew

22:29
O land O land O land hear the word of Yahweh

22:30
thus he says Yahweh record obj. this man childless
a man who not he will prosper in his days
for not he will prosper any of his offspring anyone will be sitting on the throne of David
and ruling again over Judah
