3:1
saying there! he will send away a husband obj. his wife and she will go from with him and she will belong to a man another ¿ will he return to her again
¿ not certainly will it be polluted that land
and you have acted as a prostitute companions many
and will you return? to me the utterance of Yahweh

3:2
lift up your eyes on bare heights and see where? not have you been lain with
at roads you sat for them like an Arab in the wilderness
and you have polluted the land by your prostitution and by your wickedness

3:3
and they have been withheld copious showers and spring rain
not it has come
and the forehead of a woman a prostitute it belonged to you refused to be ashamed

3:4
¿ not from now have you called to me O my father were the close friend of my youth you

3:5
¿ will he maintain for ever
or? will he keep to perpetuity
here! you spoke and you wicked did things
and you were able

3:6
and said Yahweh to me in the days of Josiah the king ¿ have you seen
that which she has done the apostate one Israel
has been going she on every high hill and to under every tree luxuriant
and she has acted as a prostitute there

3:7
and I thought after has done she obj. these all things to me she will return
and not she has returned and she saw treacherous her sister Judah

3:8
and I saw that on all causes that she committed adultery the apostate one Israel
I sent her away and I gave obj. the document of her divorce to her and not she was afraid treacherous Judah her sister
and she went
and she acted as a prostitute also she

3:9
and it was from the lightness of her prostitution
and it was polluted obj. the land
and she committed adultery obj. stone and wood

3:10
and also for this all not she returned to me treacherous her sister Judah with all her heart that except with deception
the utterance of Yahweh

3:11
and said Yahweh to me she has made her righteous appear self
the apostate one Israel more than the treacherous one
Judah

3:12
go and you will proclaim obj. these words north -ward and you will say return ! O apostate one Israel the utterance of Yahweh
not I will make fall my face on you for am faithful I the utterance of Yahweh
not I will maintain for ever

3:13
only recognize your iniquity that against Yahweh your God
you have rebelled
and you have scattered obj. your ways to strangers under every tree luxuriant
and to my voice not you have listened the utterance of Yahweh

3:14
return O sons backsliding the utterance of Yahweh
for I am husband over you
and I will take you one from a city and two from a clan
and I will bring you Zion

3:15
and I will give to you shepherds according to my own heart
and they will shepherd you knowledge and insight

3:16
and it will be that you will multiply and you will be fruitful in the land in those days of the utterance of Yahweh
not people will say again the ark of the covenant of Yahweh
and not it will come up on a heart
and not people will remember it and not people will miss it
and not it will be made again

3:17
at that time people will call Jerusalem the throne of Yahweh
and they will be collected to it all the nations to the name of Yahweh to Jerusalem
and not they will walk again after the stubbornness of their evil heart

3:18
in those days they will walk the house of Judah with the house of Israel
so they may come together from a land of the north to the land which I gave as an inheritance
obj. your ancestors

3:19
and I thought how! I will set you among the sons so I may give to you a land of desire
an inheritance of beauty of beauties of nations
and I thought my father you will call me
and from after me not you will turn away

3:20
nevertheless she deals treacherously a woman from her companion
so you have dealt treacherously with me O house of Israel the utterance of Yahweh

3:21
a sound on bare heights is heard
the weeping of the supplications of the people of Israel for they have perverted obj. their way they have forgotten
obj. Yahweh their God

3:22
return O sons backsliding I will heal
your apostasies here are we have come to you for you are Yahweh our God

3:23
truly to deception from the hills a tumult mountains
truly is in Yahweh our God
the salvation of Israel

3:24
and the shameful thing it has consumed obj. the toil of our ancestors since our youth
obj. their flocks and their herds obj. their sons
and their daughters

3:25
let us lie down in our shame and let it cover us our disgrace
for to Yahweh our God we have sinned we and our ancestors since our youth
and this until day and not we have listened to the voice of Yahweh our God
