14:1
which it came the word of Yahweh to Jeremiah on the matters of the droughts

14:2
it is in mourning Judah
and its gates they are languishing they are in mourning to the earth and the outcry of Jerusalem it has gone up

14:3
and noble their ones they have sent their servants for water
they have come to the cisterns not they have found water they have returned their vessels empty
they are ashamed and they are humiliated
and they have covered their head

14:4
for sake of the ground which it is cracked
for not it has come rain in the land they are ashamed farmers they have covered their head

14:5
for also a doe in the field it has given birth
and it has abandoned
for not it is grass

14:6
and wild donkeys they have stood on the bare heights
they have panted for breath like jackals
they have failed their eyes for there not is vegetation

14:7
though our iniquities they have testified against us O Yahweh
act for the sake of your name for they are many our apostasies to you we have sinned

14:8
O hope of Israel its deliverer in a time of distress
why? are you like a sojourner in the land
and like a traveler who he has turned aside to spend the night

14:9
why? are you like a person astounded like a warrior who not he is able to save
and you are in our midst O Yahweh and your name on us it is called may not you abandon us

14:10
thus he says Yahweh of this people thus they have loved to wander
their feet not they have restrained
and Yahweh not he has accepted them
now he will remember their iniquity
so he may punish their sins

14:11
and said Yahweh to me may not you pray for this people for good

14:12
for they will fast not I will be listening to cry of their entreaty
even if they will offer up a burnt offering and a grain offering not I will be accepting them for by the sword
and by famine
and by pestilence I will be bringing to an end them

14:13
and I said alas! O Lord Yahweh here! the prophets are saying to them not you will see sword
and famine not it will happen to you
for peace of reliability I will give to you in the place this

14:14
and said Yahweh to me falsehood the prophets are prophesying in my name
not I sent them and not I appointed them
and not I spoke
to them a vision of falsehood and divination and an idol and the deceitfulness of their own heart
they are prophesying to you

14:15
therefore thus he says Yahweh on the prophets who are prophesying in my name and I not I sent them
and they are saying
sword and famine
not it will happen
in this land
by the sword and by famine they will their meet end of the prophets those

14:16
and the people whom they are prophesying to them they will be thrown out in the streets of Jerusalem because of the famine and the sword and not a burier will belong to them
them their wives and their sons and their daughters
and I will pour out on them obj. their wickedness

14:17
and you will speak to them obj. this word
let them run down my eyes tears night and by day
and may not they cease
for a great breaking she has been broken the virgin of the daughter of my people a wound
made sick very

14:18
if I went out the field and there! those slain of a sword
and if I went the city and there!
diseases of famine for both prophet as well as priest they have gone about to a land
and not they know

14:19
¿ really have you rejected obj. Judah or? Zion does it abhor your self why? have you struck us
and not belongs to us healing
we waited eagerly for peace and there not was good
and for a time of healing
and there! terror

14:20
we know O Yahweh our wickedness the iniquity of our ancestors for we have sinned to you

14:21
may not you spurn for the sake of your name may not you treat with contempt the throne of your glory
remember may not you break your covenant with us

14:22
¿ are there among the vanities of those nations who send rain and or? the heavens
do they give copious showers
¿ not you is it O Yahweh our God so we may wait eagerly for you for you have done
obj. these all things
