36:1
and it was in the year fourth of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah
the king of Judah
it this came word to Jeremiah
from with Yahweh saying

36:2
take for yourself a scroll of a document
and you will write to it obj. all the words which I have spoken to you on Israel
and on Judah
and on all the nations from the day when I spoke to you from the days of Josiah
and until this day

36:3
perhaps they will hear the house of Judah obj. all the harm
which I am planning to do to them
so that they may turn back everyone from his evil way
and I will forgive their iniquity and their sin

36:4
and called Jeremiah obj. Baruch the son of Neriah
and wrote Baruch from the mouth of Jeremiah obj. all the words of Yahweh which he had spoken to him on a scroll of a document

36:5
and commanded Jeremiah obj. Baruch saying I am shut up
not I am able to go the house of Yahweh

36:6
and you will go you and you will read aloud in the scroll which you have written from my mouth obj. the words of Yahweh in the ears of the people the house of Yahweh
on a day of fasting
and also in the ears of all Judah who are coming from their cities you will read aloud them

36:7
perhaps it will fall their supplication before Yahweh
so they may turn back everyone from his evil way for is great the anger and the rage
which he has spoken Yahweh against this people

36:8
and did Baruch the son of Neriah according to all that he had commanded him Jeremiah the prophet
to read aloud in the scroll the words of Yahweh the house of Yahweh

36:9
and it was in the year fifth of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah the king of Judah in the month ninth
they proclaimed a fast before Yahweh all the people in Jerusalem
and all the people who were coming from the cities of Judah in Jerusalem

36:10
and read aloud Baruch in the scroll obj. the words of Jeremiah the house of Yahweh
in the room of Gemariah the son of Shaphan the scribe in the court upper the entrance of the gate of the house of new Yahweh
in the ears of all the people

36:11
and heard Micaiah the son of Gemariah the son of Shaphan obj. all the words of Yahweh
from on the scroll

36:12
and went down the house of the king to the room of the scribe
and there! there all the officials were sitting
Elishama the scribe
and Delaiah the son of Shemaiah and Elnathan the son of Achbor
and Gemariah the son of Shaphan
and Zedekiah the son of Hananiah
and all the officials

36:13
and he told to them Micaiah obj. all the words
which he had heard when read aloud Baruch in the scroll in the ears of the people

36:14
and they sent all the officials to Baruch obj. Jehudi the son of Nethaniah the son of Shelemiah the son of Cushi saying
the scroll which you have read aloud in it in the ears of the people take it in your hand
and come
and took Baruch the son of Neriah obj. the scroll in his hand
and he went to them

36:15
and they said to him sit please
and read aloud it in our ears and read it aloud Baruch in their ears

36:16
and it was when heard they obj. all the words they were in dread each to his neighbor
and they said to Baruch
certainly we will tell to the king obj. all the things these

36:17
and Baruch
they asked saying tell please to us
how? did you write obj. these all words from his mouth

36:18
and he said to them Baruch
from his mouth he proclaimed to me obj. all the words these
and I was writing on the scroll with ink

36:19
and said the officials to Baruch go hide yourself you and Jeremiah
and anyone may not he know where? are you

36:20
and they went to the king the toward court and the scroll they had deposited in the room of Elishama the scribe
and they told in the ears of the king obj. all the things

36:21
and sent the king obj. Jehudi to fetch obj. the scroll
and he fetched it from the room of Elishama the scribe
and read aloud it Jehudi in the ears of the king
and in the ears of all the officials who were standing from with the king

36:22
and the king was sitting the house of the winter in the month ninth
and the fire-pot before him was kindled

36:23
and it was when read aloud Jehudi three doors and four he tore it with the knife of the scribe
and he threw it into the fire which was to the fire-pot until was consumed all the scroll on the fire which was on the fire-pot

36:24
and not they were afraid and not they tore obj. their clothes the king and all his servants who heard obj. all the words these

36:25
and also Elnathan and Delaiah and Gemariah they had made entreaty with the king to not to burn
obj. the scroll
and not he listened to them

36:26
and commanded the king obj. Jerahmeel the son of the king and Seraiah the son of Azriel and Shelemiah the son of Abdeel
to seize obj. Baruch the scribe and Jeremiah the prophet
and he hid them Yahweh

36:27
and came the word of Yahweh to Jeremiah after burned the king obj. the scroll and the words which he had written Baruch from the mouth of Jeremiah saying

36:28
return take for yourself a scroll another
and write on it obj. all the words former
which they were on the scroll former which he burned Jehoiakim the king of Judah

36:29
and to Jehoiakim the king of Judah you will say thus he says Yahweh
you burned obj. this scroll saying
why? did you write on it saying certainly he will come the king of Babylon and he will destroy obj. this land
and he will cause to cease from it human being and animal

36:30
therefore thus he says Yahweh on Jehoiakim the king of Judah
not he will belong to him one who sits
on the throne of David and his corpse it will be thrown out to the heat in the day
and to the frost in the night

36:31
and I will visit on him
and on his offspring
and on his servants
obj. their iniquity
and I will bring on them
and on the inhabitants of Jerusalem
and to everyone of Judah obj. all the calamity which I have spoken against them and not they listened

36:32
and Jeremiah he took a scroll another and he gave it to Baruch the son of Neriah the scribe
and he wrote on it from the mouth of Jeremiah obj. all the words of the scroll
which he had burned Jehoiakim the king of Judah in the fire
and again it was added to them words many like them
