6:1
and it was just when it was heard by Sanballat and Tobiah
and by Geshem the Arab
and by the rest of our enemies that I had rebuilt the wall
and not it was left in it a breach
also until that time
doors not I had set up in the gates

6:2
and sent Sanballat and Geshem to me saying
come ! so let us meet together at Kephirim in the plain of Ono
and they were planning to do to me
harm

6:3
and I sent ! to them messengers saying a great work I am doing
and not I am able to go down
why? will it cease the work when I will let drop it
and I will go down to you

6:4
and they sent to me according to this manner four times
and I sent back to them according to this manner

6:5
and he sent to me Sanballat according to this manner a time fifth
his servant
and a open letter was in his hand

6:6
was written in it among the nations it has been heard and Gashmu is saying
you and the Jews are planning to rebel
therefore you are rebuilding
the wall
and you are about to become of them king according to the words
these

6:7
and also prophets you have appointed to proclaim on you in Jerusalem saying a king is in Judah
and now it will be heard by the king according to these words
and therefore come ! so let us take counsel together

6:8
and I sent ! to him saying not it has occurred according to these words which you are saying
that from your heart you are inventing them

6:9
for all of them were making afraid us saying
they will drop their hands from the work
and not it will be done
and therefore strengthen my hands

6:10
and I went the house of Shemaiah the son of Delaiah the son of Mehetabel and he was shut up
and he said let us meet to the house of God to the middle of the temple and let us close the doors of the temple
for people are coming to kill you
and night people are coming to kill you

6:11
and I said ! ¿ a man like me will he flee
and who? is like me who he will go into the temple
and he will live not I will go

6:12
and I recognized ! and there! not God he had sent him
for the prophecy he had spoken on me and Tobiah and Sanballat he had hired him

6:13
so that was hired he so that I may be afraid and I may act thus
and I will sin and it will become for them a bad name so that they may reproach me

6:14
remember ! O God my to Tobiah
and to Sanballat according to his works these
and also Noadiah the prophetess and to the rest of the prophets who they were
making afraid me

6:15
and was complete the wall on day twenty and five of Elul to fifty and two days

6:16
and it was just when they heard all our enemies
and they were afraid all the nations which were around us
and they fell exceedingly in their own eyes
and they knew
that from with our God it had been done this work

6:17
also in those days were multiplying the nobles of Judah their letters
which were going to Tobiah and those which belonged to Tobiah were coming to them

6:18
for many people in Judah were lords of oath to him
for was a son-in-law he of Shecaniah the son of Arah and Jehohanan his son
he had taken the daughter of Meshullam the son of Berekiah

6:19
his good also deeds they were telling before me and my words they were sending out to him
letters he sent Tobiah to make afraid me
