2:1
at my post I will stand and I will take my stand on the fortification and I will watch to see what will he speak by me
and what will I bring back on my complaint

2:2
and Yahweh answered me
and he said write down the vision
and make it clear on the tablets
so that he may run one who reads it

2:3
for still the vision is for the appointed time
and it will pant to the end
and it will not lie if it will delay wait for it for surely it will come
it will not delay

2:4
there! it is swollen it is not upright his self in him and the righteous
by his faithfulness he will live

2:5
and also indeed wine is acting treacherously
a proud man
and who he will not stays at home who he has made large like Sheol his throat and he is like death
and he is not satisfied
and he has gathered to himself all the nations
and he has assembled to himself all the peoples

2:6
not these nations of them all on him a saying will they lift up and a mocking song riddles to him
and will someone say woe to! the one who increases that which not belongs to him until when?
and one who makes heavy on himself pledges

2:7
not suddenness will they arise those who pay interest to you
and will they awake those who will make you tremble
and you will become plunder for them

2:8
because you have plundered nations many
they will plunder you
all the rest of the peoples from the blood of humankind and the violence of the land of the town
and all those who dwell in it

2:9
woe to! one who gains unjust gain evil for his house
to set on the high places his nest to deliver himself from the palm of evil

2:10
you have planned shame for your house by cutting off peoples many
and you have sinned your self

2:11
for a stone
from the wall it will cry out and a rafter
from the wood it will answer it

2:12
woe to! one who builds a city by blood
and he establishes a town by injustice

2:13
is it not there! from with Yahweh of hosts
and they labor peoples for the sufficiency of fire and nations
for the sufficiency of emptiness they grow weary

2:14
for it will be filled the earth to know the glory of Yahweh like waters
which they cover over the sea

2:15
woe to! one who makes drink his neighbor
one who mixes your rage
and even you make them drunk so as to look on their nakedness

2:16
you are satisfied shame more than honor drink also you
and be counted as uncircumcised
it will come round to you the cup of the right hand of Yahweh
and disgrace will be over your honor

2:17
for the violence of Lebanon it will cover you
and the devastation of animals it will terrify them from the blood of humankind and the violence of the land of the town
and all those who dwell in it

2:18
what does it profit a carved image when he has carved it the one who formed it a molten image
and that which teaches falsehood
for he relies the one who formed its form on it
to make idols dumb

2:19
woe to! one who says to wood wake up awake to a stone of silence
it will it teach there! it is sheathed gold and silver
and any breath there is not within it

2:20
and Yahweh is in the temple of his holiness
hush! from before him all the earth
