5:1
and summoned Moses to all Israel
and he said to them hear O Israel obj. the statutes and the judgments
which I am speaking in your ears this day and you will learn them
and you will take care to observe them

5:2
Yahweh our God he made with us a covenant at Horeb

5:3
not with our ancestors he made Yahweh obj. this covenant
for with us we these this here day all of us alive

5:4
face on face he spoke Yahweh with you at the mountain from the middle of the fire

5:5
I was standing between Yahweh
and between you at the time that to declare to you
obj. the word of Yahweh
for you were afraid of the fire
and not you went up on the mountain saying

5:6
I am Yahweh your God who I brought out you from the land of Egypt
from a house of slaves

5:7
not it will belong to you gods other on my face

5:8
not you must make for yourself an image of any form which is in the heavens above
and which is on the earth beneath and which is in the waters from under to the earth

5:9
not you must bow down to them and not you must be enticed to serve them
for I Yahweh your God am a God jealous
who visits the iniquity of parents on children
and on a third generation
and on a fourth generation of those who hate me

5:10
and who does covenant loyalty to thousands of those who love me
and of those who keep my commandments

5:11
not you must take obj. the name of Yahweh your God for emptiness
for not he will leave unpunished Yahweh obj. one who he will take obj. his name for emptiness

5:12
keep obj. the day of the sabbath to set apart as holy it just as he commanded you Yahweh your God

5:13
six days you will labor
and you will do all your work

5:14
and the day seventh
is a sabbath
to Yahweh your God
not you must do any work you
and your son and your daughter
and male your servant and female your servant
and your ox
and your donkey
and all your livestock and your sojourner who is in your gates
so that he may rest male your servant and female your servant like you

5:15
and you will remember that a slave you were in the land of Egypt
and brought out you Yahweh your God from there by a strong hand
and by an arm outstretched
therefore he has commanded you Yahweh your God to observe obj. the day of the sabbath

5:16
honor obj. your father and your mother just as he has commanded you Yahweh your God
so that they may be long ! your days
and so that it may go well for you on the land
which Yahweh your God is about to give to you

5:17
not you must murder

5:18
and not you must commit adultery

5:19
and not you must steal

5:20
and not you must testify against your neighbor testimony of falsehood

5:21
and not you must covet the wife of your neighbor
and not you must desire the house of your neighbor his field and male his servant and female his servant his ox and his donkey
and all that belongs to your neighbor

5:22
obj. these words he spoke Yahweh to all your assembly at the mountain from the middle of the fire the cloud and the thick darkness
a great voice and not he added
and he inscribed them on two tablets of stone
and he gave them to me

5:23
and it was when heard you obj. the voice from the middle of the darkness and the mountain was burning with fire and you drew near ! to me all the chiefs of your tribes
and your elders

5:24
and you said here! he has shown us Yahweh our God obj. his glory and his greatness
and his voice we have heard from the middle of the fire
this day we have seen
that he speaks God with humankind
and he will live

5:25
and therefore why? will we die for it will consume us the great fire this
if are repeating we to hear obj. the voice of Yahweh our God again
and we will die

5:26
for who? is all flesh who he has heard the voice of living God speaking from the middle of the fire like us
and he has lived

5:27
draw near you and hear obj. all that he will say Yahweh our God
and you will speak to us obj. all that he will speak Yahweh our God to you
and we will listen and we will do it

5:28
and heard Yahweh obj. the sound of your words when spoke you to me
and said Yahweh to me I have heard obj. the sound of the words of this people which they spoke to you
they have done well
all that they have spoken

5:29
who? will he give and it will belong their heart this to them to fear me
and to keep obj. all my commandments
all the days so that it may go well for them
and for their children for ever

5:30
go say to them return yourselves to your tents

5:31
and you here stand with me
so let me speak to you obj. all the commandment and the statutes and the judgments which you will teach them
and they will observe them in the land which I am about to give to them to take possession of it

5:32
and you will take care to do
just as he has commanded Yahweh your God you
not you must turn aside right hand and left hand

5:33
in all the way which he has commanded Yahweh your God you
you will walk
so that you may live ! and it will be good for you
and you will prolong days in the land which you will take possession of !
