7:1
if he will bring you Yahweh your God into the land where you are about to go toward there to take possession of it
and he will clear away nations many from before you the Hittites
and the Girgashites
and the Amorites
and the Canaanites
and the Perizzites
and the Hivites
and the Jebusites
seven nations
great and mighty more than you

7:2
and will deliver up them Yahweh your God before you and you will strike down them
certainly you will totally destroy them not you will make to them a covenant and not you will show favor to them

7:3
and not you will intermarry with them your daughter not you will give to his son
and his daughter not you will take for your son

7:4
for he will turn aside obj. your son from after me and they will serve gods other
and will burn the anger of Yahweh on you
and he will destroy you quickly

7:5
that except thus you will do to them
their altars you will break down and sacred their pillars
you will shatter
and Asherah their poles you will cut down !
and their images you will burn ! with fire

7:6
for are a holy people you to Yahweh
your God
you he has chosen Yahweh your God to become for him a people of possession
from all the peoples which are on the surface of the ground

7:7
not because were numerous you more than all the peoples he loved Yahweh you
and he chose you for you were the few from all the peoples

7:8
for from the love of Yahweh you
and because kept he obj. the oath which he swore to your ancestors
Yahweh brought out you
by a strong hand and he redeemed you from a house of slaves from the hand of Pharaoh the king of Egypt

7:9
and you will know that Yahweh your God he is God the God faithful
who keeps the covenant and covenant loyalty to those who love him
and to those who keep his commandments
to a thousand generations

7:10
and who repays to those who hate him to his face by destroying him
not he delays to the one who hates him to his face he repays to him

7:11
and you will keep obj. the commandment and the statutes and the judgments which I am commanding you this day to observe them

7:12
and it will be consequence you will hear ! obj. these judgments
and you will take care and you will observe them
and will keep Yahweh your God to you obj. the covenant and covenant loyalty which he swore
to your ancestors

7:13
and he will love you and he will bless you
and he will increase you
and will bless the fruit of your womb and the fruit of your ground your grain and your new wine and fresh your oil the young of your cattle and the young ones of your flock
on the land
which he swore to your ancestors to give to you

7:14
blessed you will be more than all the peoples not he will be among you a sterile male and a barren female
and among your livestock

7:15
and will remove Yahweh from you every sickness
and all the diseases of Egypt harmful which you experienced not he will put them on you
and he will set them on all those who hate you

7:16
and you will consume obj. all the peoples which Yahweh your God is about to deliver up to you
not it will look with pity your eye on them and not you will serve obj. their gods for will be a snare it to you

7:17
for you will say in your heart
are these great nations more than I how? will I be able to dispossess them

7:18
not you must be afraid from them carefully you will remember obj. that which he did Yahweh your God
to Pharaoh
and to all Egypt

7:19
the trials great which they saw your eyes
and the signs
and the wonders
and the hand mighty
and the arm outstretched which he brought out you Yahweh God your
thus he will do Yahweh your God to all the peoples which you are afraid of them

7:20
and also obj. the hornet he will send Yahweh your God
among them until perish those who remain and those who hide themselves from before you

7:21
not you must be terrified of them
for Yahweh your God is in your midst a great God
and awesome

7:22
and will clear away Yahweh your God obj. these nations from before you
little not you will be able to make an end of them quickly lest it should increase with you the animals of the field

7:23
and will deliver up them Yahweh your God before you and he will confuse them great confusion until are destroyed they

7:24
and he will give their kings in your hand
and you will destroy obj. their name from under the heavens not he will stand anyone in your face
until destroying you
them

7:25
the images of their gods you will burn ! with fire
not you will covet silver and gold on them
and you will take it for yourself
lest you should be ensnared by it for is the abomination of Yahweh your God that

7:26
and not you will bring an abomination into your house
and you will be an object for destruction like it
utterly you will detest it and utterly you will abhor it for is an object for destruction it
