11:1
and you will love obj. Yahweh your God
and you will keep his command and his statutes
and his judgments
and his commandments
all the days

11:2
and you will this know day
that not obj. your children who not they have known and who not they have seen
obj. the training of Yahweh your God obj. his greatness obj. his mighty hand
and his arm
outstretched

11:3
and his signs and his deeds which he did
in the midst of Egypt to Pharaoh the king of Egypt
and to all his land

11:4
and which he did to the army of Egypt to its horses
and to its chariotry when he caused to flow obj. the water of the sea of reeds over their faces
when pursued they after you and destroyed them Yahweh until this day

11:5
and which he did to you in the wilderness until came you to this place

11:6
and which he did to Dathan
and to Abiram the sons of Eliab the son of Reuben when it opened the earth obj. its mouth
and it swallowed them and their households and their tents
and all the substance which was at their feet in the midst of all Israel

11:7
for your eyes are the ones which saw
obj. all the work of Yahweh great which he did

11:8
and you will keep obj. all the commandment which I am commanding you
this day so that you may be strong and you will go and you will take possession of obj. the land
where you are about to pass over toward there to take possession of it

11:9
and so that you may prolong days on the land
which he swore Yahweh to your ancestors to give to them
and to their offspring
a land flowing of milk
and honey

11:10
for the land where you are about to go toward there to take possession of it
not is like the land of Egypt it where you came out
from there where you sowed obj. your seed
and you watered it with your foot like the garden of vegetables

11:11
and the land where you are about to pass over toward there to take possession of it
is a land of mountains and valleys
to the rain of the heavens
it drinks water

11:12
a land which Yahweh your God
is caring for it
continually the eyes of Yahweh your God are on it from the beginning of the year
and until the end of a year

11:13
and it will be if certainly if you will obey to my commandments which I am commanding you
this day to love obj. Yahweh God your
and to serve him with all your heart
and with all your being

11:14
and I will give the rain of your land at appropriate its time autumn rain and spring rain
and you will gather your grain and your new wine and fresh your oil

11:15
and I will give grass in your fields for your cattle
and you will eat
and you will be satisfied

11:16
take heed to yourselves
lest it should be deceived your heart
and you will turn aside and you will serve gods other
and you will bow down to them

11:17
and it will burn the anger of Yahweh on you and he will shut up obj. the heavens
and not it will come rain
and the ground not it will yield obj. its produce
and you will perish quickly from on the good land which Yahweh
is about to give to you

11:18
and you will put my obj. these words on your heart and on your being
and you will tie them for a sign on your hand
and they will be for marks between your eyes

11:19
and you will teach them obj. your children by speaking in them when sitting you in your house
and when walking you on the road
and when lying down you
and when rising up you

11:20
and you will write them on the doorposts of your house
and on your gates

11:21
so that they may increase your days and the days of your children on the land
which he swore Yahweh to your ancestors to give to them
like the days of the heavens above the earth

11:22
that except certainly you will keep ! obj. this all commandment which I am commanding you
to do it to love obj. Yahweh your God to walk in all his ways
and to cleave to him

11:23
and will dispossess Yahweh obj. these all nations from before you
and you will dispossess nations great and mighty more than you

11:24
every place which it will tread the sole of your foot on it
to you it will belong from the wilderness and Lebanon from the River the river of Euphrates
and to the sea western it will be your territory

11:25
not he will stand anyone in your faces
your dread and your fear he will put Yahweh your God over the face of all the land which you will tread on it
just as he spoke to you

11:26
see I am setting before you this day a blessing
and a curse

11:27
obj. the blessing that you will obey to the commandments of Yahweh your God
which I am commanding you
this day

11:28
and the curse if not you will obey to the commandments of Yahweh your God
and you will turn aside from the way which I am commanding you
this day to walk after gods other which not you have known

11:29
and it will be that he will bring you Yahweh your God into the land
where you are about to go toward there to take possession of it
and you will set obj. the blessing on the mountain of Gerizim and the curse on the mountain of Ebal

11:30
¿ not are they on the other side of the Jordan behind the direction of the setting of the sun
in the land of the Canaanites
who is dwelling in the Arabah opposite to Gilgal beside the great trees of Moreh

11:31
for you are about to pass over obj. the Jordan to go to take possession of obj. the land
which Yahweh your God is about to give to you
and you will take possession of it and you will dwell in it

11:32
and you will take care to observe obj. all the statutes and the judgments which I am setting before you this day
