17:1
not you will sacrifice to Yahweh your God an ox and a sheep which it will be in it a blemish
any bad thing for is the abomination of Yahweh your God that

17:2
if he will be found in your midst in one of your gates which Yahweh your God is about to give to you
a man or a woman who he will do obj. the evil in the eyes of Yahweh your God
by transgressing his covenant

17:3
and he has gone and he has served gods other
and he has bowed down to them
and to the sun or to the moon or to all the host of the heavens which not I have commanded

17:4
and it will be told to you
and you will hear
and you will investigate thoroughly and there! truth is certain the matter
it has been this done abomination in Israel

17:5
and you will bring out obj. that man or obj. that woman who they have done obj. this evil thing to your gates
obj. the man
or
obj. the woman
and you will stone them with stones and they will die

17:6
on the mouth of two witnesses or three witnesses
he will be put to death the one who dies
not he will be put to death on the mouth of a witness one

17:7
the hand of the witnesses it will be on him at the first to put to death him
and the hand of all the people at the last
and you will remove the evil from your midst

17:8
if it will be too difficult for you a matter for judgment between blood and blood between dispute and dispute
and between wound and wound
matters of cases at law in your gates
and you will arise and you will go up to the place which he will choose Yahweh your God it

17:9
and you will go to the priests the Levites
and to the judge who he will be in those days
and you will enquire and they will tell to you obj. the word of the verdict

17:10
and you will do on the mouth of the word which they will tell to you
from that place which he will choose Yahweh
and you will take care to do according to all that they will instruct you

17:11
on the mouth of the instruction which they will instruct you
and on the verdict which they will say to you will do
not you will turn aside from the word which they will tell to you right hand and left hand

17:12
and the person who he will act with presumption to not to listen to the priest who stands to serve there obj. Yahweh your God
or to the judge
and will die that person and you will remove the evil from Israel

17:13
and all the people they will hear and they may fear and not they will act presumptuously ! again

17:14
if you will go into the land which Yahweh your God is about to give to you
and you will take possession of it and you will dwell in it
and you will say let me appoint over myself a king like all the nations which are around me

17:15
indeed you will appoint over yourself a king whom he will choose Yahweh your God
him
from the midst of your countrymen you will appoint over yourself a king
not you will be able to set over yourself a man foreign who not is your countryman
he

17:16
only not he will increase for himself horses
and not he will make return obj. the people toward Egypt so as to increase horses
and Yahweh he has said to you
not you will repeat ! to return on this way again

17:17
and not he will increase for himself wives and not it will turn aside his heart
and silver and gold not he will increase for himself exceedingly

17:18
and it will be when sits he on the throne of his kingdom
and he will write for himself obj. copy of this law on a scroll
from before the priests
the Levites

17:19
and it will be with him and he will read it all the days of his life
so that he may learn to fear obj. Yahweh his God
to keep obj. all the words of this law and these statutes to do them

17:20
to not to be his high heart more than his countrymen
and to not to turn aside from the commandment right hand and left hand
so that he may prolong days over his kingdom he
and his descendants in the midst of Israel
