11:1
and it was the people like those who complain trouble in the ears of Yahweh and he heard Yahweh
and it burned his anger
and it burned among them the fire of Yahweh
and it consumed in the outskirts of the camp

11:2
and cried out the people to Moses
and prayed Moses to Yahweh
and the fire died out

11:3
and someone called the name of that place
Taberah for it had burned among them the fire of Yahweh

11:4
and the rabble which was in its midst they craved a craving
and they returned and they wept also the people of Israel
and they said who? will he cause to eat us meat

11:5
we remember obj. the fish
which we ate in Egypt for nothing obj. the cucumbers and the watermelons
and the leeks and the onions
and the garlic

11:6
and now our appetite is dry there not is anything except are to the manna our eyes

11:7
and the manna was like seed of coriander
it
and its appearance was like the appearance of bdellium

11:8
they went about the people
and they gathered and they ground in hand-mill or they pounded in mortar
and they boiled in pot
and they made it bread cakes
and it was its taste like the taste of cake of oil

11:9
and when came down the dew on the camp night
it came down the manna with it

11:10
and heard Moses obj. the people weeping to its clans everyone to the entrance of his tent
and burned the anger of Yahweh exceedingly
and in the eyes of Moses
it was displeasing

11:11
and said Moses to Yahweh why? have you done harm to your servant
and why? not have I found favor in your view
to put obj. the burden of this all people on me

11:12
¿ I did I conceive obj. this all people or? I
did I give birth to it
that you will say to me carry it in your bosom just as he carries foster-father obj. the suckling-child
on the land which you swore to its ancestors

11:13
from where? belong to me will meat to give it to this all people
for they are weeping to me saying give ! to us meat so let us eat

11:14
not I am able I to alone me to carry obj. this all people
for it is too heavy for me

11:15
and if thus you are doing to me kill me please completely
if I have found favor in your view
and may not I look on my distress

11:16
and said Yahweh to Moses gather ! to me seventy man from the elders of Israel
whom you know that they are the elders of the people and its officials
and you will take them to the tent of meeting and they will present themselves there with you

11:17
and I will come down and I will speak with you there
and I will share some of the spirit which is on you and I will put it on them and they will carry with you in the burden of the people
and not you will carry it you to alone you

11:18
and to the people you will say sanctify yourselves for tomorrow and you will eat meat
for you have wept in the ears of Yahweh saying who? will he cause to eat us meat
for it was good for us in Egypt
and will give Yahweh to you meat
and you will eat

11:19
not a day one you will eat ! and not two days
and not five days and not ten days and not
twenty days

11:20
until a month of days until that it will come out from your nose
and it will become for you a loathsome thing
because for you have rejected obj. Yahweh who is in your midst
and you have wept before him saying
why? this did we come out from Egypt

11:21
and said Moses are six hundred thousand foot soldiers
the people which I am in its midst
and you have said meat I will give to them
and they will eat a month of days

11:22
¿ a flock and a herd will it be slaughtered for them
and someone will find for them
or? obj. all the fish of the sea will it be gathered for them
and someone will find for them

11:23
and said Yahweh to Moses
¿ the hand of Yahweh is short it
now you will see ¿ will it happen to you my word or? not

11:24
and Moses went out
and he spoke to the people obj. the words of Yahweh
and he gathered seventy man from the elders of the people
and he stationed them around the tent

11:25
and Yahweh came down in the cloud
and he spoke to him
and he shared some of the spirit which was on him
and he put it on seventy man
the elders and it was when rested on them the spirit
and they prophesied
and not they repeated

11:26
and they had remained two men in the camp the name of the one was Eldad and the name of the second was Medad
and it rested on them the spirit and they among those written
and not they had gone out
the toward tent and they prophesied in the camp

11:27
and ran the young man
and he told to Moses
and he said Eldad
and Medad are prophesying in the camp

11:28
and answered Joshua the son of Nun the servant of Moses from his youth
and he said O my lord Moses restrain them

11:29
and Moses said to him ¿ zealous are you for me
and who? will he give all the people of Yahweh were prophets
that he will put Yahweh obj. his spirit on them

11:30
and gathered himself Moses to the camp he
and the elders of Israel

11:31
and a wind it set out from with Yahweh and it brought quails from the sea
and it left them at the camp about a journey of a day thus
and about a journey of a day thus around the camp
and about two cubits above the surface of the ground

11:32
and the people arose all the day that and all the night and all the day of the next day
and they gathered obj. the quail
the one who little did he gathered ten homers
and they spread them out for themselves completely around the camp

11:33
the meat still it was between their teeth not yet
it was chewed
and the anger of Yahweh it burned on the people
and struck Yahweh the people a plague great very

11:34
and someone called obj. the name of that place Kibroth Hattaavah for there they buried
obj. the people who craved

11:35
from Kibroth Hattaavah they set out the people Hazeroth
and they were at Hazeroth
