27:1
and drew near the daughters of Zelophehad the son of Hepher the son of Gilead the son of Makir the son of Manasseh of the clans of
Manasseh the son of Joseph and these were the names of his daughters Mahlah Noah
and Hoglah and Milcah and Tirzah

27:2
and they took their stand before Moses
and before Eleazar the priest
and before the leaders
and all the congregation the entrance of the tent of meeting saying

27:3
our father he died in the wilderness
and he not he was in among the company which gathered on Yahweh in the company of Korah for in his own sin he died
and sons not they belonged to him

27:4
why? will it be withdrawn the name of our father from among his clan for not belonged to him
a son give ! to us a possession in among the brothers of our father

27:5
and brought near Moses obj. their case before Yahweh

27:6
and said Yahweh to Moses saying

27:7
right the daughters of Zelophehad are speaking
certainly you will give to them possession of an inheritance in among the brothers of their father
and you will make pass over obj. the inheritance of their father to them

27:8
and to the people of Israel you will speak saying
a man if he will die and a son not belongs to him
and you will make pass over obj. his inheritance to his daughter

27:9
and if not belongs to him
a daughter and you will give obj. his inheritance to his brothers

27:10
and if not belong to him
brothers and you will give obj. his inheritance
to the brothers of his father

27:11
and if not brothers belong to his father
and you will give obj. his inheritance to his relative near to him from his own clan
and he will take possession of it
and it will become for the people of Israel a statute of judgment
just as he has commanded Yahweh obj. Moses

27:12
and said Yahweh to Moses
go up to the mountain of the Abarim this
and see obj. the land which I have given to the people of Israel

27:13
and you will see it and you will be gathered to your people also you
just as he was gathered Aaron your brother

27:14
since you rebelled against my mouth in the wilderness of Zin in the strife of the congregation
to treat as holy me at the waters to their eyes
they were the waters of Meribath Kadesh the wilderness of Zin

27:15
and spoke Moses to Yahweh saying

27:16
let him appoint Yahweh the God of the spirits of all flesh a man over the congregation

27:17
who he will go out before them and who he will come before them and who he will lead out them
and who he will bring them
and not it will be the congregation of Yahweh like sheep which not belongs to them a shepherd

27:18
and said Yahweh to Moses take for yourself obj. Joshua the son of Nun a man
whom a spirit is in him
and you will lay obj. your hand on him

27:19
and you will make stand him before Eleazar the priest and before all the congregation and you will commission him
to their eyes

27:20
and you will put some of your majesty on him so that they may hear all the congregation of the people of Israel

27:21
and before Eleazar the priest he will stand
and he will enquire for him by the judgment of the Urim before Yahweh
on his mouth they will go out
and on his mouth they will come he
and all the people of Israel with him
and all the congregation

27:22
and did Moses
just as he had commanded Yahweh him
and he took obj. Joshua
and he made stand him before Eleazar the priest
and before all the congregation

27:23
and he laid obj. his hands on him and he commissioned him
just as he had spoken Yahweh by the hand of Moses
