17:1
And the LORD spake unto Moses,
saying,

17:2
Speak unto Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest, that he take up the censers out of the burning,
and scatter thou the fire yonder;
for they are hallowed.

17:3
The censers of these sinners against their own souls, let them make them broad plates for a covering of the altar:
for they offered them before the LORD, therefore they are hallowed:
and they shall be a sign unto the children of Israel.

17:4
And Eleazar the priest took the brasen censers, had offered;
wherewith they that were burnt and they were made broad plates for a covering of the altar:

17:5
To be a memorial unto the children of Israel, that no stranger, which is not of the seed of Aaron, come near
to offer incense
before the LORD;
that he be not as Korah, and as his company:
as the LORD said to him by the hand of Moses.

17:6
But on the morrow all the congregation of the children of Israel murmured against Moses
and against Aaron, saying, Ye have killed the people of the LORD.

17:7
And it came to pass, when the congregation was gathered against Moses
and against Aaron, that they looked toward the tabernacle of the congregation: and, behold, the cloud covered it,
and the glory of the LORD appeared.

17:8
And Moses and Aaron came before the tabernacle of the congregation.

17:9
And the LORD spake unto Moses,
saying,

17:10
Get you up from among this congregation,
that I may consume them as in a moment.
And they fell upon their faces.

17:11
And Moses said unto Aaron,
Take a censer, and put fire the altar, and put on incense,
and go quickly unto the congregation,
therein from off and make an atonement for them: for there is wrath gone out from the LORD;
the plague is begun.

17:12
And Aaron took as Moses commanded,
and ran into the midst of the congregation;
and, behold, the plague was begun among the people: and he put on incense,
and made an atonement for the people.

17:13
And he stood between the dead
and the living; and the plague was stayed.

17:14
Now they that died in the plague
were fourteen thousand and seven hundred, beside them that died about the matter of Korah.

17:15
And Aaron returned unto Moses unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation: and the plague
was stayed.

17:16
And the LORD spake unto Moses,
saying,

17:17
Speak unto the children of Israel, and take of every one of them a rod according to the house of their fathers, of all their princes according to the house of their fathers
twelve rods: thou every man's name upon
write his rod.

17:18
Aaron's name upon
And thou shalt write the rod of Levi:
for one rod shall be for the head of the house of their fathers.

17:19
And thou shalt lay them up in the tabernacle of the congregation
before the testimony, where I will meet with you.

17:20
And it shall come to pass, that the man's whom I shall choose,
rod, shall blossom:
and I will make to cease from me the murmurings of the children of Israel, whereby they murmur against you.

17:21
And Moses spake unto the children of Israel,
and every one of their princes gave him a rod apiece, for each prince one, according to their fathers' houses,
even twelve rods:
and the rod of Aaron was among their rods.

17:22
And Moses laid up the rods before the LORD in the tabernacle of witness.

17:23
And it came to pass, that on the morrow Moses went into the tabernacle of witness;
and, behold, the rod of Aaron for the house of Levi was budded,
and brought forth buds,
and bloomed blossoms,
and yielded almonds.

17:24
And Moses brought out all the rods from before the LORD unto all the children of Israel:
and they looked, and took every man his rod.

17:25
And the LORD said unto Moses,
Bring Aaron's rod again before the testimony,
to be kept for a token against the rebels; and thou shalt quite take away their murmurings from me,
that they die not.

17:26
And Moses did so:
as the LORD commanded him,
so did he.

17:27
And the children of Israel spake unto Moses,
saying,
Behold, we die, we perish,
we all perish.

17:28
Whosoever cometh any thing near unto the tabernacle of the LORD
shall die:
shall we be consumed with dying?
