45:1



45:2
To the chief Musician upon Shoshannim, for the sons of Korah, Maschil, A Song of loves. My heart is inditing a good matter:
I speak of the things which I have made touching the king: my tongue
is the pen of a ready writer.

45:3
Thou art fairer than the children of men:
grace is poured into thy lips:
therefore God hath blessed thee for ever.

45:4
Gird thy sword upon thy thigh, O most mighty, with thy glory
and thy majesty.

45:5
And in thy majesty ride prosperously because of truth and meekness and righteousness;
and thy right hand shall teach thee terrible things.

45:6
Thine arrows are sharp
whereby the people fall under thee.
in the heart of the king's enemies;

45:7
Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever:
the sceptre is a right
of thy kingdom sceptre.

45:8
Thou lovest righteousness, and hatest wickedness: therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness
above thy fellows.

45:9
All thy garments smell of myrrh, and aloes, and cassia, out of the ivory palaces,
whereby they have made thee glad.

45:10
Kings' daughters were among thy honourable women: upon thy right hand did stand the queen in gold of Ophir.

45:11
Hearken, O daughter, and consider, and incline thine ear;
forget also thine own people, and thy father's house;

45:12
So shall the king greatly desire thy beauty: for he is thy Lord; and worship thou him.

45:13
And the daughter of Tyre shall be there with a gift; even the rich among the people shall intreat thy favour.

45:14
The king's daughter is all glorious within: her clothing is of wrought gold.

45:15
She shall be brought unto the king in raiment of needlework: the virgins her companions that follow her shall be brought unto thee.

45:16
With gladness and rejoicing shall they be brought:
they shall enter into the king's palace.

45:17
Instead of thy fathers shall be thy children,
whom thou mayest make princes in all the earth.

45:18
I will make thy name to be remembered in all generations:
therefore shall the people praise thee for ever and ever.
