8:1
and the man of Ephraim said to him what? is this thing which you have done to us
to not to summon us
that you went to fight against Midian
and they quarreled ! with him with force

8:2
and he said to them what? have I done now like you
¿ good not are the gleanings of Ephraim more than the grape harvest of Abiezer

8:3
in your hand he has given God obj. the commanders of Midian obj. Oreb and Zeeb
and what? have I been able to do like you
then it relaxed their spirit from on him when said he this word

8:4
and came Gideon
the toward Jordan was passing over he and three hundred the man who were with him
were exhausted
and pursuing

8:5
and he said to the people of Succoth
give please round loaves of bread to the people which is at my feet
for are exhausted they
and I am pursuing after Zebah and Zalmunna the kings of Midian

8:6
and said the officials of Succoth
¿ is the hand of Zebah and Zalmunna now in your hand
that we will give to your army bread

8:7
and said Gideon
therefore when gives Yahweh obj. Zebah and Zalmunna in my hand
and I will thresh obj. your flesh with thorns of the wilderness and with briers

8:8
and he went up from there Penuel
and he spoke to them like this
and they answered him the men of Penuel
just as they had answered the men of Succoth

8:9
and he said also to the men of Penuel saying when return I in peace I will tear down
obj. this tower

8:10
and Zebah and Zalmunna were in Karkor
and their armies were with them about fif- teen thousand all those who remained
of all the army of the people of the east and those who fell were one hundred and twenty thousand man
who drew the sword

8:11
and went up Gideon the way of those who dwell in tents from the east of Nobah
and Jogbehah and he attacked obj. the army
and the army it was security

8:12
and fled Zebah and Zalmunna
and he pursued
after them and he captured obj. the two the kings of Midian obj. Zebah and Zalmunna
and all the army he routed

8:13
and returned Gideon the son of Joash from the battle from to the ascent of Heres

8:14
and he captured a young man one of the men of Succoth
and he enquired of him
and he wrote down to him obj. the officials of Succoth and its elders seventy and seven man

8:15
and he came to the men of Succoth
and he said here! Zebah and Zalmunna
whom you taunted me saying ¿ is the hand of Zebah and Zalmunna now in your hand
that we will give to your men weary bread

8:16
and he took obj. the elders of the city and the thorns of the wilderness and the briers
and he taught with them obj. the men of Succoth

8:17
and the tower of Penuel
he tore down and he killed obj. the men of the city

8:18
and he said to Zebah and to Zalmunna where? are the men whom you killed
at Tabor and they said like you like them one was like the appearance of the sons of the king

8:19
and he said were my brothers the sons of my mother they
by the life of Yahweh if you had let live them not I killed you

8:20
and he said to Jether his firstborn
arise kill them
and not he drew the young man of his sword for he was afraid for still he was a young man

8:21
and said Zebah and Zalmunna arise you and fall on us for is like the man
his strength
and Gideon arose
and he killed obj. Zebah and Zalmunna
and he took obj. the ornaments which were on the necks of their camels

8:22
and said the man of Israel to Gideon rule over us both you as well as your son
as well as the son of your son for you have delivered us from the hand of Midian

8:23
and Gideon said to them not I will rule I over you
and not he will rule of my son over you Yahweh
he will rule over you

8:24
and Gideon said to them let me ask from you a petition
and give to me everyone earring of his plunder for earrings of gold belonged to them
for were Ishmaelites they

8:25
and they said certainly we will give them
and they spread out obj. the garment
and they threw toward there everyone earring of his plunder

8:26
and was the weight of the earrings of gold which he asked for
one thousand and seven hundred gold apart from the ornaments and the pendants
and the garments of purple that were on the kings of Midian
and apart from the necklaces which were on the necks of their camels

8:27
and he made it Gideon into an ephod
and he placed it in his city in Ophrah
and they acted as prostitutes all Israel after it there
and it became for Gideon
and for his household a snare

8:28
and was subdued Midian before the people of Israel
and not they repeated
to lift up their head
and was at peace the land forty years
in the days of Gideon

8:29
and went Jerub-Baal the son of Joash
and he dwelt in his own house

8:30
and to Gideon they belonged seventy sons who came out of
his thigh for wives many they belonged to him

8:31
and his concubine who was in Shechem she bore to him also she
a son and he made obj. his name Abimelech

8:32
and died Gideon the son of Joash in old good age
and he was buried in the tomb of Joash his father in Ophrah of the Abiezrites

8:33
and it was just when he had died Gideon
and turned back the people of Israel
and they acted as prostitutes
after the Baals and they made for themselves Baal- Berith into god

8:34
and not they remembered the people of Israel obj. Yahweh their God
who delivered them from the hand of all their enemies from round about

8:35
and not they did loyalty with the house of Jerub-Baal
Gideon according to all the good which he had done with Israel
