10:1
and said Yahweh to Moses
go to Pharaoh
for I have made heavy obj. his heart and the heart of his servants
so as to perform I my these signs in his midst

10:2
and so that you may recount in the ears of your son
and the son of son your obj. how I have dealt ruthlessly with Egypt and my signs
which I performed among them and you will know that I am Yahweh

10:3
and went Moses and Aaron to Pharaoh
and they said to him thus he says Yahweh the God of the Hebrews
until when? have you refused to humble yourself
from before me let go my people so they may serve me

10:4
that except are refusing you
to let go obj. my people
here I am about to bring tomorrow locusts in your territory

10:5
and it will cover obj. the eye of the land and not anyone will be able
to see obj. the ground
and it will eat obj. the remainder of the escaped thing which remains to you from the hail
and it will eat obj. every tree that is sprouting for you from the field

10:6
and they will be full your houses
and the houses of all your servants
and the houses of all Egypt which not they saw your ancestors and the ancestors of your ancestors
from the day were they on the land until this day and he turned and he went out
from with Pharaoh

10:7
and said the servants of Pharaoh to him until when? will he this become man for us a snare
let go obj. the people
so they may serve obj. Yahweh their God ¿ not yet do you know
that it will perish Egypt

10:8
and he was brought back obj. Moses and Aaron to Pharaoh
and he said to them go serve
obj. Yahweh your God who? and who?
are the ones going

10:9
and Moses said with young our men
and with old our men we will go with our sons
and with our daughters with our flocks
and with our herds we will go for festival of Yahweh will belong to us

10:10
and he said to them may he be thus Yahweh with you just as I will let go you
and your little ones
see that evil is before your faces

10:11
not so go please the men and serve obj. Yahweh for it
you are requesting and someone drove out them from with the face of Pharaoh

10:12
and said Yahweh to Moses stretch out your hand over the land of Egypt for the locusts
so may it come up on the land of Egypt
so it may eat obj. all the vegetation of the land obj. all that left it over the hail

10:13
and stretched out Moses obj. his staff over the land of Egypt
and Yahweh he drove a wind of the east in the land all that day
and all the night the morning it was
and the wind of the east it carried obj. the locusts

10:14
and came up the locusts on all the land of Egypt
and it settled down in all the territory of Egypt
heavy very before it not it had been thus locusts like it
and after it not it will be thus

10:15
and it covered obj. the eye of all the land
and it grew dark the land
and it ate obj. all the vegetation of the land and all the fruit of the trees which it left had over
the hail
and not it was left behind any greenery on the trees
and on the vegetation of the field in all the land of Egypt

10:16
and he hurried Pharaoh to summon Moses
and Aaron
and said I have sinned to Yahweh your God and to you

10:17
and therefore forgive please my sin this only time
and pray
to Yahweh your God
so may he remove from on me only obj. this death

10:18
and he went out
from with Pharaoh and he prayed to Yahweh

10:19
and turned Yahweh a wind strong west very
and it carried away obj. the locusts
and it blew it the sea toward of reeds
not it remained a locust one in all the territory of Egypt

10:20
and strong made Yahweh obj. the heart of Pharaoh
and not he let go obj. the people of Israel

10:21
and said Yahweh to Moses stretch out your hand to the heavens
so may it be darkness over the land of Egypt
so they may feel darkness

10:22
and stretched out Moses obj. his hand to the heavens
and it was darkness of darkness in all the land of Egypt three days

10:23
not they saw each obj. his brother
and not they rose anyone from under him three days
and to all the people Israel it belonged light in dwelling their places

10:24
and Pharaoh summoned to Moses
and he said go serve obj. Yahweh
only your flocks and your herds it will be detained
your little also ones it will go with you

10:25
and said Moses also you will give in our hand sacrifices and burnt offerings
and we will offer them to Yahweh our God

10:26
and also our livestock it will go with us not it will remain a hoof
for some of it we will take to serve obj. Yahweh our God
and we not we will know what? will we serve obj. Yahweh until go we there

10:27
and strong made Yahweh obj. the heart of Pharaoh and not he was willing to let go them

10:28
and Pharaoh said to him go from with me
take heed to yourself to may you repeat to see my face for on the day seeing you my face you will die

10:29
and said Moses right you have spoken not I will repeat again to see your face
