33:1
and spoke Yahweh to Moses go go up from here
you and the people which you have brought up from the land of Egypt
to the land which I swore to Abraham to Isaac
and to Jacob saying
to your offspring I will give it

33:2
and I will send before you an angel
and I will drive out obj. the Canaanites the Amorites
and the Hittites and the Perizzites
the Hivites
and the Jebusites

33:3
to a land flowing of milk
and honey
for not I will go up in your midst for are a people stiff of neck you
lest I should make an end of you on the journey

33:4
and heard the people obj. this bad word
and they mourned
and not they placed anyone his ornaments on himself

33:5
and had said Yahweh to Moses say to the people of Israel you are a people stiff of neck
a moment one I will go up in your midst
and I will make an end of you
and therefore take down your ornaments from on yourself so let me consider what? will I do to you

33:6
and stripped themselves the people of Israel obj. their ornaments from the mountain of Horeb

33:7
and Moses he took obj. the tent and he pitched it from the outside of the camp at a distance from the camp
and he called it the tent of meeting
and it was any one who sought Yahweh
he went out to the tent of meeting which was from the outside of the camp

33:8
and it was when went out Moses to the tent
they arose all the people
and they stood everyone the opening of his tent
and they looked after Moses until went he the toward tent

33:9
and it was when went Moses the toward tent
it came down the pillar of cloud
and it stood
the opening of the tent and he spoke with Moses

33:10
and it saw all the people obj. the pillar of cloud standing
the opening of the tent and it arose all the people and they bowed down everyone the opening of his tent

33:11
and spoke Yahweh to Moses face to face
just as he speaks a person to his companion
and he returned to the camp
and his servant Joshua the son of Nun a young man not he departed from the midst of the tent

33:12
and said Moses to Yahweh see you are saying to me bring up obj. this people
and you not you have made know me obj. whom you will send
with me and you have said I know you by name and also you have found favor in my view

33:13
and therefore if please I have found favor in your view show me please obj. your ways
so I may know you so that I may find favor in your view
and consider that is your people this nation

33:14
and he said my presence they will go
and I will give rest to you

33:15
and he said to him if not your presence is going may not you bring up us from here

33:16
and how? will it be known then that I have found favor in your view I
and your people ¿ not
by going you with us and we will be distinguished I
and your people from every people which is on the surface of the ground

33:17
and said Yahweh to Moses
also obj. this thing which you have spoken
I will do
for you have found favor in my view and I have known you by name

33:18
and he said show me please obj. your glory

33:19
and said I will cause to pass by all my goodness on your face
and I will proclaim the name of Yahweh before you and I will show favor to obj. those whom I will show favor
and I will have compassion on
obj. those whom I will have compassion

33:20
and he said not you will be able to see obj. my face for not he will see me person
and he will live

33:21
and said Yahweh
there! a place is with me and you will stand on the rock

33:22
and it will be when passes by my glory
and I will put you in the cleft of the rock
and I will hold my palm over you until have passed by I

33:23
and I will remove obj. my palm
and you will see obj. back my parts
and my face not they will be visible
