14:1
and spoke Yahweh to Moses saying

14:2
speak to the people of Israel
so they may turn back and they may encamp before Pi- hahiroth between Migdol
and between the sea
before Baal- Zephon
opposite it you will encamp at the sea

14:3
and will say Pharaoh of the people of Israel
are wandering in confusion they in the land it has shut on them the wilderness

14:4
and I will make strong obj. the heart of Pharaoh and he will pursue after them and I will gain honor by Pharaoh
and by all his army and they will know Egypt that I am Yahweh
and they did so

14:5
and it was told to the king of Egypt that it had fled
the people and was changed the heart of Pharaoh and his servants to the people
and they said what? this have we done that we have let go obj. Israel from serving us

14:6
and he harnessed obj. his chariot and his people
he took with him

14:7
and he took six hundred chariots chosen
and all the chariotry of Egypt
and officers were over all of it

14:8
and strong made Yahweh obj. the heart of Pharaoh the king of Egypt
and he pursued after the people of Israel
and the people of Israel
were going out with a hand raised

14:9
and they pursued Egypt after them
and they overtook them encamped at the sea every horse of the chariotry of Pharaoh
and his horsemen
and his army at Pi- hahiroth
before Baal- Zephon

14:10
and Pharaoh he drew near
and the people of Israel lifted up obj. their eyes and there! Egypt was marching after them
and they were afraid exceedingly
and cried out the people of Israel to Yahweh

14:11
and they said to Moses ¿ because not there not were graves in Egypt you brought us
to die in the wilderness what? this have you done to us by bringing out us from Egypt

14:12
¿ not is this the word which we spoke to you in Egypt saying
cease from us so let us serve obj. Egypt
for is better for us serving obj. Egypt than to die us in the wilderness

14:13
and said Moses to the people may not you be afraid stand firm and see obj. the deliverance of Yahweh
which he will bring about for you
this day for which you have seen obj. this Egypt day
not you will repeat to see them again until perpetuity

14:14
Yahweh he will fight for you and you
you will keep quiet !

14:15
and said Yahweh to Moses why? are you crying out
to me speak to the people of Israel
so they may set out

14:16
and you raise obj. your staff and stretch out obj. your hand over the sea
and divide it so they may go the people of Israel in the middle of the sea on the dry ground

14:17
and I here I am about to strong make obj. the heart of Egypt
so they may go after them and I will gain honor by Pharaoh
and by all his army by his chariots
and by his horsemen

14:18
and will know Egypt
that I am Yahweh when gain honor I by Pharaoh by his chariots
and by his horsemen

14:19
and set out the angel of God who had been going before the camp of Israel
and he went behind them
and set out the pillar of cloud from before them
and it stood behind them

14:20
and it went between the camp of Egypt
and between the camp of Israel
and was the cloud and the darkness
and it lit up obj. the night
and not it drew this near to this all the night

14:21
and stretched out Moses obj. his hand over the sea
and drove Yahweh obj. the sea by a wind an east strong wind all the night
and he made obj. the sea into dry ground
and they were divided the waters

14:22
and went the people of Israel in the middle of the sea on the dry ground
and the water for them was a wall from their right
and from their left

14:23
and they pursued Egypt
and they went after them every horse of Pharaoh his chariotry
and his horsemen into the middle of the sea

14:24
and it was in the watch of the morning
and looked down Yahweh to the camp of Egypt in a pillar of fire
and cloud and he confused obj. the camp of Egypt

14:25
and he turned aside obj. the wheels of its chariots
and he caused to drive it with difficulty
and said Egypt let me flee from before Israel
for Yahweh is fighting for them against Egypt

14:26
and said Yahweh to Moses stretch out obj. your hand over the sea
so they may return the waters over Egypt over its chariots
and over its horsemen

14:27
and Moses stretched out obj. his hand over the sea
and the sea returned to the turning of morning to normal its state
and Egypt were fleeing to meet it
and shook off Yahweh obj. Egypt in the middle of the sea

14:28
and they returned the waters
and they covered obj. the chariots and the horsemen to all the army of Pharaoh
which had gone after them in the sea not it remained among them up to one

14:29
and the people of Israel they walked on the dry ground in the middle of the sea
and the water for them was a wall from their right
and from their left

14:30
and delivered Yahweh on that day obj. Israel from the hand of Egypt
and saw Israel obj. Egypt dead on the shore of the sea

14:31
and saw Israel obj. the great hand which he had used Yahweh on Egypt
and feared the people obj. Yahweh
and they believed in Yahweh and in Moses his servant
