37:1
and made Bezalel obj. the ark wood of acacia
was two cubits and a half its length and was a cubit and a half its breadth
and was a cubit and a half its height

37:2
and he overlaid it pure gold from inside and from outside
and he made for it a molding of gold all around

37:3
and he cast for it four rings of gold on the four its feet
and two rings were on its side one
and two rings were on its side second

37:4
and he made poles of
wood of acacia and he overlaid them gold

37:5
and he put obj. the poles in the rings on the sides of the ark to carry
obj. the ark

37:6
and he made an atonement cover of pure gold was two cubits and a half its length
and was a cubit and a half its breadth

37:7
and he made two cherubim gold
hammered work he made them from the two the ends of the atonement cover

37:8
a cherub one was from an end from this
and a cherub one was from an end from this
from the atonement cover he made obj. the cherubim from the two its ends

37:9
and were the cherubim spreading out wings upwards covering with their wings over the atonement cover
and their faces
each was to its brother to the atonement cover
they were the faces of the cherubim

37:10
and he made obj. the table wood of acacia was two cubits its length and was a cubit its breadth
and was a cubit and a half its height

37:11
and he overlaid it pure gold
and he made for it a molding of gold all around

37:12
and he made for it a rim of a hand breadth all around
and he made a molding of gold for its rim all around

37:13
and he cast for it four rings of gold
and he put obj. the rings
on the four the corners which belonged to the four its feet

37:14
close to the rim they were the rings holders for the poles to carry
obj. the table

37:15
and he made obj. the poles wood of acacia
and he overlaid them gold to carry obj. the table

37:16
and he made obj. the articles which were on the table obj. its dishes and its pans and its bowls
and the jugs which it was poured out with them gold pure

37:17
and he made obj. the lampstand pure gold
hammered work he made obj. the lampstand its base and its shaft
its cups its bulbs and its blossoms from it they were

37:18
and six branches
were going out from its sides
three branches of lampstand were from its side one
and three branches of lampstand were from its side second

37:19
three cups shaped like almond blossoms were on the branch one a bulb and a blossom
and three cups shaped like almond blossoms were on a branch one a bulb and a blossom
thus for the six the branches
which came out from the lampstand

37:20
and were on the lampstand four cups shaped like almond blossoms its bulbs
and its blossoms

37:21
and a bulb was under two of the branches from it
and a bulb was under two of the branches from it
and a bulb was under two of the branches from it for the six the branches
which came out from it

37:22
their bulbs and their branches from it they were
all of it was hammered work one pure gold

37:23
and he made obj. its lamps seven and its tongs and fire-its pans pure gold

37:24
a talent of pure gold he made it and all its articles

37:25
and he made obj. the altar of incense wood of acacia
was a cubit its length and was a cubit its breadth square and was two cubits its height
from it they were its horns

37:26
and he overlaid it pure gold obj. its top and its sides all around and its horns
and he made for it a molding of gold all around

37:27
and two rings of gold he made for it from under to its molding on the two its sides
on the two its sides for holders for poles
to carry it by them

37:28
and he made obj. the poles
wood of acacia and he overlaid them gold

37:29
and he made obj. the oil of anointing a holy thing and the incense of the perfume
pure the work of a perfumer
