21:1
and these are the judgments which you will set before them

21:2
for you will buy a slave Hebrew
six years he will serve
and in the seventh year he will go out to free person without paying

21:3
if with his body he will come
with his body he will go out
if is the husband of a wife he and she will go out his wife with him

21:4
if his master he will give to him a wife and she will bear to him sons or daughters
the woman and her children she will belong to her master
and he will go out with his body

21:5
and if carefully he will say the slave
I love obj. my master obj. my wife and my children not I will go out a free person

21:6
and he will bring near him his master to God
and he will bring near him to the door or to the doorpost
and he will pierce his master obj. his ear with the awl
and he will serve him for ever

21:7
and if he will sell a man obj. his daughter to a female slave not she will go out when go out the male slaves

21:8
if she is bad in the eyes of her master who for himself he her designated
and he will let be her ransomed
to a people foreign not he will have dominion to her sell because has dealt treacherously he with her

21:9
and if for his son he will her designate according to the custom of daughters he will do to her

21:10
if another woman
he will take for himself
her food her covering and right to her intercourse
not he will reduce

21:11
and if three these things
not he will do for her
and she will go out without paying not money

21:12
one who will strike anyone and he will die certainly he will be put to death

21:13
and that not he was lying in wait
and God he allowed to happen to his hand
and I will designate for you a place where he will flee there

21:14
and if he will act presumptuously anyone on his neighbor to kill him with cunning
from with my altar you will take him to die

21:15
and one who will strike his father and his mother certainly he will be put to death

21:16
and one who will steal anyone and he will sell him and he will be found in his hand
certainly he will be put to death

21:17
and one who will curse of his father and his mother certainly he will be put to death

21:18
and if they will quarrel ! men
and he will strike anyone obj. his neighbor with a stone or with a fist
and not he will die
and he will fall to a bed

21:19
if he will arise and he will walk about on the outside on his staff
and will be free from guilt the one who struck
only sitting his still he will pay for
and certainly he will have him healed

21:20
and if he will strike anyone obj. male his slave or obj. female his slave with the rod
and he will die under his hand certainly
he will be avenged

21:21
nevertheless if a day or two days
he will remain not he will be avenged for is his money he

21:22
and if they will struggle together men and they will strike a woman pregnant and they will come out her children
and not it will be harm
certainly he will be fined just as he will impose on him the husband of the woman
and he will give for the estimate

21:23
and if harm it will be
and you will give a life in place of a life

21:24
an eye in place of an eye
a tooth in place of a tooth
a hand in place of a hand a foot in place of a foot

21:25
burning in place of burning
bruise in place of bruise
wound in place of wound

21:26
and if he will strike anyone obj. the eye of male his slave or obj. the eye of female his slave
and he will destroy it
to free person he will set free him in place of his eye

21:27
and if the tooth of male his slave or the tooth of female his slave he will knock out
to free person he will set free him in place of his tooth

21:28
and if it will gore an ox obj. a man or obj. a woman
and he will die
certainly it will be stoned to death the ox and not it will be eaten obj. its meat
and the owner of the ox
will be free from guilt

21:29
and if will be an ox prone to gore it from yesterday three days ago and it has been protested on its owner
and not he will guard it
and it will kill a man or a woman
the ox it will be stoned to death
and also its owner he will be put to death

21:30
if a ransom it will be imposed on him and will give the ransom of his life according to all that it will be imposed
on him

21:31
or a son it will gore
or a daughter it will gore according to this judgment
it will be done to him

21:32
if a male slave it will gore the ox
or a female slave silver thirty shekels he will give to his master
and the ox it will be stoned to death

21:33
and if he open will anyone a pit or for he will dig anyone a pit
and not he will cover it and it will fall there an ox or a donkey

21:34
the owner of the pit he will make compensation silver he will repay to its owner
and the dead animal it will belong to him

21:35
and if it will strike the ox of anyone obj. the ox of his neighbor
and it will die and they will sell obj. the living ox and they will divide obj. its silver and also obj. the dead animal
they will divide !

21:36
or it is known that is an ox prone to gore it from yesterday three days ago
and not he guarded it its owner
certainly he will make compensation an ox in place of the ox
and the dead animal it will belong to him

21:37
if he will steal anyone an ox or a sheep
and he will slaughter it
or he has sold it
five cattle he will repay in place of the ox
and four sheep in place of the sheep
