5:1
and after they went Moses and Aaron
and they said to Pharaoh
thus he says Yahweh the God of Israel
let go obj. my people
so they may celebrate a festival to me in the wilderness

5:2
and said Pharaoh
who? is Yahweh that I will listen to his voice by letting go obj. Israel
not I know obj. Yahweh and also obj. Israel
not I will let go

5:3
and they said the God of the Hebrews he has met with us
let us go please a journey of three days in the wilderness and let us sacrifice to Yahweh our God
lest he should fall on us with pestilence or with the sword

5:4
and the king of Egypt said to them
why? O Moses and Aaron
are you causing to refrain obj. the people from its work go to forced your labor

5:5
and said Pharaoh
here! is many now the people of the land and you have caused to cease them from forced their labor

5:6
and commanded Pharaoh on that day
obj. the taskmasters over the people and its foremen saying

5:7
not you will repeat ! to give straw to the people to make bricks the bricks
as yesterday three days ago
they let them go
and they may gather for themselves straw

5:8
and the measurement of the bricks which they were making yesterday three days ago you will place on them
not you will diminish from it for are idle they therefore they are crying out saying
let us go
let us sacrifice to our God

5:9
let it be heavy the labor on the men so they may work in it
and may not them pay attention to words of falsehood

5:10
and went out the taskmasters of the people and its foremen
and they said to the people saying
thus he says Pharaoh not I am giving to you straw

5:11
you go acquire for yourselves straw from where
you will find it for not is diminished from your labor anything

5:12
and scattered the people in all the land of Egypt to gather stubble for the straw

5:13
and the taskmasters were pressing them saying complete your work a matter of a day in its day just as when was the straw

5:14
and were struck the foremen of the people of Israel whom they had appointed over them the taskmasters of Pharaoh
saying why? not have you completed prescribed your portion by making bricks as yesterday three days ago
neither yesterday
this nor day

5:15
and went the foremen of the people of Israel
and they cried out to Pharaoh saying
why? are you doing thus to your servants

5:16
straw not is being given to your servants
and bricks people are saying to us
make
and there! your servants are being struck and you have sinned your people

5:17
and he said are idle you idle
therefore you are saying let us go
let us sacrifice to Yahweh

5:18
and now go work and straw
not it will be given to you and the measurement of bricks
you will give

5:19
and saw the foremen of the people of Israel themselves in trouble saying
not you will diminish from your bricks a matter of a day in its day

5:20
and they met obj. Moses and Aaron
standing to meet them when came out they from with Pharaoh

5:21
and they said to them may he look Yahweh on you
and may he judge that you have made stink obj. our odor in the eyes of Pharaoh and in the eyes of his servants
to put a sword in their hand to kill us

5:22
and returned Moses to Yahweh
and he said O Lord why? have you done harm to this people why? this did you send me

5:23
and from then I went to Pharaoh to speak in your name
he has done harm to this people
and certainly not you have delivered obj. your people
