5:1
And Solomon reigned over all kingdoms from the river unto the land of the Philistines,
and unto the border of Egypt: they brought presents, and served Solomon
all the days of his life.

5:2
And Solomon's provision for one day was thirty measures of fine flour, and threescore measures of meal,

5:3
Ten fat oxen, and twenty oxen out of the pastures,
and an hundred sheep, beside harts, and roebucks, and fallowdeer,
and fatted fowl.

5:4
For he had dominion over all the region on this side the river, from Tiphsah
even to Azzah, over all the kings on this side the river:
and he had peace on all sides round about him.

5:5
And Judah and Israel dwelt safely, every man under his vine
and under his fig tree, from Dan
even to Beer-sheba, all the days of Solomon.

5:6
And Solomon had forty thousand stalls of horses for his chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen.

5:7
And those officers provided victual for king Solomon,
and for all that came unto king Solomon's table,
every man in his month:
they lacked nothing.

5:8
Barley also and straw for the horses
and dromedaries
brought they unto the place where the officers were, every man according to his charge.

5:9
And God gave Solomon wisdom and understanding exceeding much, and largeness of heart, even as the sand that is on the sea shore.

5:10
And Solomon's wisdom excelled the wisdom of all the children of the east country,
and all the wisdom of Egypt.

5:11
For he was wiser than all men; than Ethan the Ezrahite, and Heman,
and Chalcol, and Darda, the sons of Mahol: and his fame was in all nations round about.

5:12
And he spake three thousand proverbs:
and his songs were a thousand and five.

5:13
And he spake of trees, from the cedar tree that is in Lebanon
even unto the hyssop that springeth out of the wall:
he spake also of beasts,
and of fowl,
and of creeping things,
and of fishes.

5:14
And there came of all people to hear the wisdom of Solomon,
from all kings of the earth, which had heard of his wisdom.

5:15
And Hiram king of Tyre sent his servants unto Solomon;
for he had heard
that they had anointed him king in the room of his father:
for Hiram was ever a lover of David.

5:16
And Solomon sent to Hiram,
saying,

5:17
Thou knowest how that David my father could
not build an house unto the name of the LORD his God
for the wars which were about him on every side,
until the LORD put them under the soles of his feet.

5:18
But now the LORD my God hath given me rest
on every side, so that there is neither adversary nor evil occurrent.

5:19
And, behold, I purpose to build an house unto the name of the LORD my God,
as the LORD spake unto David my father,
saying,
Thy son, whom I will set upon thy throne in thy room, he shall build an house unto my name.

5:20
Now therefore command thou that they hew me cedar trees out of Lebanon; and my servants shall be with thy servants:
and unto thee will I give hire for thy servants according to all that thou shalt appoint:
for thou knowest that there is not among us any that can skill
to hew timber like unto the Sidonians.

5:21
And it came to pass, when Hiram heard the words of Solomon, that he rejoiced greatly,
and said, Blessed be the LORD this day,
which hath given unto David a wise son over this great people.

5:22
And Hiram sent to Solomon,
saying, I have considered the things which thou sentest to me for: and I will do all thy desire
concerning timber of cedar,
and concerning timber of fir.

5:23
My servants shall bring them down from Lebanon unto the sea:
and I will convey them by sea in floats unto the place that thou shalt appoint me, and will cause them to be discharged
there, and thou shalt receive
them: and thou shalt accomplish my desire, in giving food for my household.

5:24
So Hiram gave Solomon cedar trees and fir trees according to all his desire.

5:25
And Solomon gave Hiram twenty thousand measures of wheat for food to his household,
and twenty measures of pure oil: thus gave Solomon to Hiram year by year.

5:26
And the LORD gave Solomon wisdom,
as he promised him: and there was peace between Hiram
and Solomon;
and they two made a league together.

5:27
And king Solomon raised a levy out of all Israel;
and the levy was thirty thousand men.

5:28
And he sent them to Lebanon, ten thousand a month by courses:
a month they were in Lebanon,
and two months at home: and Adoniram was over the levy.

5:29
And Solomon had threescore and ten thousand that bare burdens, and fourscore thousand hewers in the mountains;

5:30
Beside the chief of Solomon's officers which were over the work,
three thousand and three hundred, which ruled over the people that wrought in the work.

5:31
And the king commanded,
and they brought great stones, costly stones,
to lay the foundation of the house.
and hewed stones,

5:32
And Solomon's builders and Hiram's builders did hew
them, and the stonesquarers: so they prepared timber and stones
to build the house.
