11:1
and it was when heard Jabin the king of Hazor and he sent to Jobab the king of Madon
and to the king of Shimron
and to the king of Acshaph

11:2
and to the kings who were from the north in the hill country
and in the Arabah south of Kinnereth
and in the Shephelah
and on the heights of Dor from the west

11:3
the Canaanites from the east and from the west
and the Amorites
and the Hittites
and the Perizzites
and the Jebusites in the hill country
and the Hivites under Hermon in the land of Mizpah

11:4
and they came out they
and all their armies with them a people numerous like the sand which is on the shore of the sea for multitude
and horses and chariots
many very

11:5
and they gathered all these kings
and they came and they encamped together to the water of Merom to wage war with Israel

11:6
and said Yahweh to Joshua may not you be afraid because of them
for tomorrow about this time I am delivering up obj. all of them slain
before Israel
obj. their horses you will hamstring and their chariots
you will burn with fire

11:7
and Joshua came
and all the people of war with him on them at the waters of Merom
suddenly and they fell on them

11:8
and gave them Yahweh in the hand of Israel and they struck down them
and they pursued them to Sidon great
and to Misrephoth Maim
and to the valley of Mizpah east -wards and they struck down them until not he left had to them a survivor

11:9
and Joshua did to them
just as he had said to him Yahweh obj. their horses he hamstrung and their chariots he burned with fire

11:10
and he turned back Joshua at the time that
and he captured obj. Hazor and its king
he struck with the sword for Hazor before it was the head of these all kingdoms

11:11
and they struck obj. every person who was in it to the mouth of the sword they totally destroyed them
not it was left any breathing thing and Hazor he burned with fire

11:12
and all the cities of these kings and all their kings he captured Joshua and he struck them to the mouth of the sword
he totally destroyed them
just as he had commanded Moses the servant of Yahweh

11:13
only all the cities which were standing on their mounds not it burned them Israel
except obj. Hazor to alone it he burned Joshua

11:14
and all the booty of these cities and the cattle they plundered for themselves
the people of Israel
only obj. every man they struck to the mouth of the sword until had destroyed they them not they left
any breathing thing

11:15
just as he had commanded Yahweh obj. Moses his servant so he commanded Moses
obj. Joshua
and so he did Joshua
not he left undone anything from all that he had commanded Yahweh obj. Moses

11:16
and took Joshua obj. this all land of the hill country and all the Negev and all the land of Goshen
and the Shephelah
and the Arabah
and the hill country of Israel
and its Shephelah

11:17
from the mountain Halak which goes up Seir
and to Baal Gad in the valley of Lebanon
under the mountain of Hermon and all their kings he captured
and he struck them
and he killed them

11:18
days many he did Joshua with these all kings battle

11:19
not it was a city which it made peace to the people of Israel
except the Hivites
the inhabitants of Gibeon
obj. everything they took in battle

11:20
for from with Yahweh it was to strengthen obj. their heart to meet the battle with Israel so as to totally destroy them
to not to belong to them favor for so as to destroy them
just as he had commanded Yahweh obj. Moses

11:21
and Joshua came at the time that
and he cut off obj. the Anakites from the hill country from Hebron from Debir from Anab
and from all the hill country of Judah
and from all the hill country of Israel with their cities he totally destroyed them Joshua

11:22
not it was left Anakites in the land of the people of Israel
only in Gaza in Gath
and in Ashdod they remained

11:23
and took Joshua obj. all the land according to all that he had spoken Yahweh to Moses
and gave it Joshua to an inheritance to Israel according to their divisions to their tribes
and the land it was at peace from war
