1:1
and it was after the death of Moses the servant of Yahweh
and said Yahweh to Joshua the son of Nun the servant of Moses saying

1:2
Moses my servant he has died
and therefore arise pass over obj. this Jordan you and this all people
into the land which I am about to give to them
to the people of Israel

1:3
every place which it will tread the sole of your foot on it
to you I have given it just as I spoke to Moses

1:4
from the wilderness and this Lebanon and to the great river of the river of Euphrates all the land of the Hittites
and to the great sea of the setting of the sun
it will be your territory

1:5
not he will stand anyone before you all the days of your life
just as I was with Moses I will be with you not I will abandon you
and not I will leave you

1:6
be strong
and be bold
for you will cause to inherit obj. this people obj. the land
which I swore to their fathers to give to them

1:7
only be strong and be bold exceedingly to take care to do according to all the law which he commanded you Moses my servant
may not you turn aside from it right and left
so that you may prosper in every where you will go

1:8
not it will depart the book of the law this from your mouth and you will meditate on it by day
and night
so that you may take care to do according to every thing written in it
for then you will make successful obj. your ways
and then you will be successful

1:9
¿ not have I commanded you be strong and be bold may not you be terrified
and may not you be dismayed
for is with you Yahweh your God in every where you will go

1:10
and commanded Joshua obj. the officers of the people saying

1:11
pass in the midst of the camp and command obj. the people saying
prepare for yourselves food
for in yet three days you are about to pass over obj. this Jordan
to go to take possession of obj. the land which Yahweh your God
is about to give to you to take possession of it

1:12
and to the Reubenites
and to the Gadites
and to the half of the tribe of Manasseh
Joshua said saying

1:13
remember obj. the word which he commanded you Moses the servant of Yahweh
saying Yahweh your God is giving rest to you
and he will give to you obj. this land

1:14
your wives little ones and your livestock
they will remain in the land which he gave to you Moses
on the other side of the Jordan
and you will pass over arrayed for battle before your brothers all the mighty men of strength
and you will help them

1:15
until that he will give rest of Yahweh to your brothers like you
and they will take possession of also they obj. the land which Yahweh your God is about to give to them
and you will return to the land of your possession and you will take possession of it
which he gave to you Moses the servant of Yahweh
on the other side of the Jordan the rising of the sun

1:16
and they answered obj. Joshua saying all that you have commanded us we will do
and to every where you will send us we will go

1:17
according to all that we listened to Moses so
we will listen to you only may he be Yahweh your God with you just as he was with Moses

1:18
every person who he will rebel toward obj. your mouth and not he will obey obj. your words to all that you will command him
he will be put to death
only be strong and be bold
