5:1
and it was when heard all the kings of the Amorites who were on the other side of the Jordan west -ward and all the kings of the Canaanites who were at the sea obj. they this heard: he had dried up Yahweh obj. the waters of the Jordan from before the people of Israel
until passing over they and it melted their heart
and not it was in them still spirit because of the people of Israel

5:2
at that time he said Yahweh to Joshua
make for yourself knives of flint
and return circumcise obj. the people of Israel a second time

5:3
and he made for himself Joshua
knives of flint and he circumcised obj. the people of Israel to the hill of foreskins

5:4
and this is the reason why he circumcised Joshua
all the people which had come out from Egypt the males all the men of war they had died in the wilderness on the way
when went out they from Egypt

5:5
for circumcised they had been all the people which came out
and all the people born in the wilderness on the way when went out they from Egypt
not people had circumcised

5:6
for forty years they had walked the people of Israel in the wilderness
until was finished all the nation the men of war who came out from Egypt who not they had listened
to the voice of Yahweh whom he had sworn Yahweh to them
to not to let to see them obj. the land which he had sworn Yahweh to their fathers to give to us
a land flowing of milk
and honey

5:7
and their children he raised up in place of them he circumcised Joshua for uncircumcised they were
for not people had circumcised them on the way

5:8
and it was just when they had finished all the nation to be circumcised
and they remained in their place in the camp until lived they

5:9
and said Yahweh to Joshua
this day I have rolled away obj. the reproach of Egypt from on you
and called the name of that place Gilgal until this day

5:10
and encamped the people of Israel at Gilgal
and they observed obj. the passover on the four- teen day of the month in the evening
on the plains of Jericho

5:11
and they ate some of the produce of the land from the next day of the passover unleavened bread and roasted grain on the substance of this day

5:12
and ceased the manna from the next day when ate they some of the produce of the land
and not it belonged again to the people of Israel manna and they ate some of the produce of the land of Canaan in the year that

5:13
and it was when was Joshua at Jericho
and he lifted up his eyes and he saw
and there! a man was standing to before him
and his sword was drawn in his hand
and Joshua went to him
and he said to him ¿ for us are you or? for our foes

5:14
and said In- deed I am the commander of the army of Yahweh
now I have come
and fell Joshua to his face the toward ground and he bowed down
and he said to him what? is my lord saying to his servant

5:15
and said the commander of the army of Yahweh to Joshua take off your sandal from on your foot
for the place which you are standing on it is a holy place it
and did Joshua thus
