7:1
and acted unfaithfully the people of Israel unfaithfulness in the devoted things
and took Achan the son of Carmi the son of Zabdi the son of Zerah of the tribe of Judah some of the devoted things
and burned the anger of Yahweh on the people of Israel

7:2
and sent Joshua men from Jericho Ai which is beside Beth Aven from the east of Bethel
and he said to them saying go up
and spy out obj. the land
and went up the men
and they spied out obj. Ai

7:3
and they returned to Joshua
and they said to him may not it go up all the people
about two thousand man or about three thousand man
let them go up
and they may attack obj. Ai may not you make go wearily toward there obj. all the people for are few they

7:4
and they went up some of the people there
about three thousand man
and they fled before the men of Ai

7:5
and they struck down of them the men of Ai about thirty and six man
and they pursued them before the gate to Shebarim
and they struck down them at the descent
and melted the heart of the people
and it became water

7:6
and Joshua tore his clothes
and he fell on his face the ground towards before the ark of Yahweh until the evening he
and the elders of Israel
and they made go up dust on their head

7:7
and said Joshua alas! O Lord Yahweh why? have you brought over at all obj. this people obj. the Jordan
to give us in the hand of the Amorites to destroy us
and if we had been willing and we had remained on the other side of the Jordan

7:8
pardon me
O Lord what? will I say after that it has turned Israel a neck
before its enemies

7:9
and may hear the Canaanites and all the inhabitants of the land
and they will surround us and they will cut off obj. our name from the earth
and what? will you do for your great name

7:10
and said Yahweh to Joshua
stand up for yourself why? this are you falling on your face

7:11
it has sinned Israel
and also they have transgressed obj. my covenant which I commanded
them and also they have taken some of the devoted things and also they have stolen and also they have deceived
and also they have put them among their things

7:12
and not they are able the people of Israel to stand before their enemies
a neck they turn before their enemies for they have become a devoted thing
not I will repeat to be with you if not you will destroy the devoted things from your midst

7:13
arise consecrate obj. the people
and you will say consecrate yourselves for tomorrow
for thus he says Yahweh the God of Israel devoted things are in your midst O Israel
not you will be able to stand before your enemies until remove you the devoted things from your midst

7:14
and you will bring yourselves near in the morning to your tribes
and will be the tribe which he will take it Yahweh it will draw near to the families and the family which he will take it Yahweh it will draw near to the households
and the household which he will take it Yahweh
it will draw near to the men

7:15
and will be the one who is taken by lot with the devoted things
he will be burned with fire him and all that belongs to him for he has transgressed obj. covenant of Yahweh
and for he has done disgraceful folly in Israel

7:16
and rose early Joshua in the morning
and he brought near obj. Israel to its tribes
and it was taken by lot of the tribe of Judah

7:17
and he brought near obj. the family of Judah
and he took obj. the family of the Zerahites
and he brought near obj. the family of the Zerahites to the men
and he was taken by lot of Zabdi

7:18
and he brought near obj. his household to the men
and was taken by lot of Achan the son of Carmi the son of Zabdi the son of Zerah of the tribe of Judah

7:19
and said Joshua to Achan O my son put please glory to Yahweh the God of Israel
and give to him confession
and tell please to me what? have you done may not you hide it from me

7:20
and answered Achan obj. Joshua and he said
truly I have sinned to Yahweh the God of Israel
and like this and like this I have done

7:21
and I saw among the booty cloak of Shinar one good
and two hundred shekels silver
and a wedge of gold one was fifty shekels its weight
and I desired them
and I took them
and there they are hidden in the ground in the midst of my tent
and the silver is under it

7:22
and sent Joshua messengers
and they ran the toward tent and there! it was hidden in his tent
and the silver was under it

7:23
and they took them from the midst of the tent
and they brought them to Joshua
and to all the people of Israel and they poured out them before Yahweh

7:24
and took Joshua obj. Achan the son of Zerah and the silver and the cloak and the wedge of gold and his sons and his daughters and his oxen and his donkeys and his sheep and his tent and all that belonged to him
and all Israel with him and they brought up them the valley of Achor

7:25
and said Joshua why? have you brought trouble to us
he will bring trouble to you Yahweh on this day
and they stoned him all Israel stones
and they burned them with fire
and they stoned them with stones

7:26
and they set up over him a heap of great stones this until day
and turned back Yahweh from the burning of his anger
therefore someone called the name of that place the valley of Achor
until this day
