4:1
and I returned I and I saw obj. all the oppression which were being done
under the sun
and there! the tears of the oppressed and not belonged to them a comforter
and was from the hand of their oppressors power and there not belonged to them a comforter

4:2
and I congratulated I obj. the dead
who already they had died more than the living who they were alive still

4:3
and is good more than both of them obj. one who still
not he has been one who not he has seen obj. the evil activity which it is done
under the sun

4:4
and I considered I obj. all the toil and all the skill of the work
that it is envy of everyone from his neighbor this also is futility
and striving of wind

4:5
the fool is folding obj. his hands and is eating obj. his own flesh

4:6
is good fullness of hand of quietness more than the fullness of two hands toil
and striving of wind

4:7
and I returned I and I saw futility under the sun

4:8
there was one person and there not was a second also a son and a brother not belonged to him and there not was an end to all his toil
also his eye not it was satisfied wealth
and for whom? am I a laborer
and depriving obj. my self from good
this also is futility and is a task of evil
it

4:9
are good two people more than one that there for them is a good reward for their toil

4:10
that except they will fall down the one he will raise obj. his companion
and woe! to him the one who will fall down and there not is a second person to raise him

4:11
also if they will lie down two people and it will be warm to them and to one person
how? will it be warm

4:12
and though someone will overpower him the one person the two people they will stand before him
and the thread threefold not quickly it will be torn apart

4:13
is good a youth poor
and wise more than a king old
and a fool who not he knows to be warned still

4:14
for from the house of the prisoners he came out to become king for also in his own kingdom he had been born a poor person

4:15
I saw obj. all the living who are walking about under the sun with the youth second
who he will arise in place of him

4:16
there not is an end to all the people to all those whom he was before them also the subsequent people
not they will rejoice in him for this also is futility
and a striving of wind

4:17
guard your foot when you will go to the house of God
and draw near to listen more than giving the fools
a sacrifice
for not they are knowing
to evil do
