25:1
and died Samuel
and they gathered together all Israel
and they mourned for him
and they buried him at his house in Ramah
and arose David
and he went down to the wilderness of Paran

25:2
and a man was in Maon
and his business was in Carmel and the man was great very
and belonged to him sheep three thousand and one thousand goats
and it was when sheared obj. his sheep in Carmel

25:3
and the name of the man was Nabal
and the name of his wife
was Abigail
and the woman was good of insight and beautiful of appearance
and the man was hard and evil of deeds and he was a Calebite

25:4
and heard David in the wilderness that was shearing Nabal obj. his sheep

25:5
and sent David young ten men
and David said to the young men go up Carmel towards
and you will go to Nabal
and you will ask of him in my name to welfare

25:6
and you will say thus to the living one and you peace
and house of your peace
and all that belongs to you
peace

25:7
and now I have heard that shearers belong to you
now the shepherds who belong to you they have been with us not we have humiliated them
and not it has been missing to them anything all the days of being they in Carmel

25:8
ask obj. your own young men so they may tell to you and let them find the young men favor in your view
for on a good day we have come
give ! please obj. that which it will find your hand to your servants
and to your son to David

25:9
and went the young men of David
and they spoke to Nabal according to these all words
in the name of David and they rested

25:10
and he answered Nabal obj. the servants of David
and he said who? is David
and who? is the son of Jesse this day they are many servants who break away
each one from before his master

25:11
and will I take obj. my bread and my water and my slaughter which I have slaughtered for my shearers
and will I give them to men who not I know where? from this are they

25:12
and turned round the young men of David to their way
and they returned and they came
and they told to him according to all these words

25:13
and David said to men of his gird on everyone obj. his sword
and they girded on everyone obj. his sword
and he girded on also David obj. his sword
and they went up after David about four hundred man
and two hundred they remained with the baggage

25:14
and to Abigail the wife of Nabal he told a young man one from the young men saying
there! he sent David messengers from the wilderness to bless obj. our master
and he shouted at them

25:15
and the men
were good to us very and not we were humiliated
and not we missed anything
all the days which we went about with them when were we in the field

25:16
a wall they were with us both night as well as by day all the days of being we with them
shepherding the flock

25:17
and now know and see what? will you do
for it has been evil determined against our master
and on all his household and he is a son of worthlessness from speaking to him

25:18
and she made haste Abigail
and she took two hundred breads
and two jars of wine
and five sheep prepared
and five seahs of roasted grain
and a hundred bunches of raisins and two hundred fig cakes
and she put them on the donkeys

25:19
and she said to her servants pass on before me here I after you will be coming
and to her husband Nabal not she told

25:20
and it was she was riding on the donkey and was going down in the cover of the mountain
and there! David and his men
were going down to her meet and she met them

25:21
and David he had said surely to deception I have guarded obj. all that belongs to this man in the wilderness
and not it has been missing any of all that belongs to him anything and he has returned to evil me in place of good

25:22
thus may he do God to the enemies David
and thus may he add
if I will leave any of all that belongs to him until the morning one who urinates on a wall

25:23
and saw Abigail obj. David
and she made haste
and she came down
from on the donkey
and she fell to the face of David on her face
and the ground bowed down

25:24
and she fell at his feet
and she said be on me I O my lord the iniquity and her let speak please your maidservant in your ears
and hear obj. the words of your maidservant

25:25
may not please he set my lord obj. his heart to the man of this worthlessness on Nabal for like his name is so he
is Nabal his name and disgraceful folly is with him and I your maidservant
not I saw obj. the young men of my lord whom you sent

25:26
and now O my lord by the life of Yahweh and by the life of your self that he has restrained you Yahweh from coming in blood
and from delivering your hand you
and now may they be like Nabal your enemies
and those who seek against my lord
evil

25:27
and this now blessing
which he has brought your maidservant to my lord
and it will be given to the young men who go about at the feet of my lord

25:28
forgive please to the transgression of your maidservant
for certainly he will make Yahweh for my lord a house enduring for the battles of Yahweh my lord is fighting
and evil not it will be found in you from your days

25:29
and he has arisen a man to pursue you and to seek obj. your life
and will be the life of my lord bound up in the bundle of the living with Yahweh your God
and the life of your enemies he will sling out it in the midst of the hollow of sling

25:30
and it will be that he will do Yahweh to my lord according to all that he has spoken obj. the good
on you and he will appoint you to ruler over Israel

25:31
and not it will become this for you staggering
and stumbling of heart for my lord
and pouring out of blood without cause
and to deliver my lord himself
and will good do Yahweh to my lord
and you will remember obj. your maidservant

25:32
and said David to Abigail
be blessed Yahweh the God of Israel who he has sent you this day
to meet me

25:33
and be blessed your discernment
and be blessed you who you have restrained this me day from coming in blood
and from delivering my hand me

25:34
and but by the life of Yahweh the God of Israel who he has restrained me
from doing harm to you
if not you had made haste and you had come to meet me
that except he has been left to Nabal until the light of the morning one who urinates on a wall

25:35
and took David from her hand obj. that which she had brought to him
and to her he said go up to peace to your house
see I have listened to your voice and I have lifted up your face

25:36
and she went Abigail to Nabal and there! belonged to him a feast in house of his like the feast of king
and the heart of Nabal it was good on him and he was drunk up to muchness
and not she told to him small anything and great until the light of the morning

25:37
and it was in the morning when had gone out the wine from Nabal
and she told to him his wife obj. the things
these and it died his heart in inward his parts
and he became stone

25:38
and it was about the ten the days and struck Yahweh obj. Nabal
and he died

25:39
and heard David that he had died Nabal
and he said be blessed Yahweh who he has conducted obj. the case of my disgrace from the hand of Nabal and his servant he has restrained from evil
and the evil of Nabal
he has turned back Yahweh on his own head
and David sent
and he spoke with Abigail to take her for himself to a wife

25:40
and went the servants of David to Abigail
toward Carmel and they spoke to her saying
David he has sent us to you to take you for himself to a wife

25:41
and she arose
and she bowed down face of the toward ground
and she said here! your maidservant to a maid to wash the feet of the servants of my lord

25:42
and she made haste and she arose Abigail and she rode on the donkey
and five her maids who walked to her foot
and she went after the messengers of David
and she became of him a wife

25:43
and Ahinoam he had taken David from Jezreel
and they became also both of them of him wives

25:44
and Saul he had given obj. Michal his daughter
the wife of David to Palti the son of Laish who was from Gallim
