2:1
and I lifted up obj. my eyes
and I saw and there! four horns

2:2
and I said to the angel who was speaking with me what? are these
and he said to me these are the horns which they scattered obj. Judah
obj. Israel
and Jerusalem

2:3
and showed me Yahweh four craftsmen

2:4
and I said what? are these coming to do
and he said these saying are the horns which they scattered obj. Judah according to the mouth of a man not he lifted up his head
and they have these come craftsmen to terrify them
to throw down obj. the horns of the nations which lifted up a horn against the land of Judah to scatter it

2:5
and I lifted up my eyes and I saw
and there! a man and was in his hand
a cord of measurement

2:6
and I said where?
are you going and he said to me to measure obj. Jerusalem
to see how much? is its breadth
and how much? is its length

2:7
and there! the angel who was speaking with me was going out and an angel another was going out
to meet him

2:8
and he said to him run speak to the young this man saying
open regions it will remain Jerusalem from the multitude of persons and livestock in the midst of it

2:9
and I will be to it the utterance of Yahweh
a wall of fire all around and glory I will become in the middle of it

2:10
alas! alas! flee from the land of the north the utterance of Yahweh
that like the four the winds of the heavens I have scattered you the utterance of Yahweh

2:11
alas! O Zion escape O inhabitants of the daughter of Babylon

2:12
for thus he says Yahweh of hosts
after honor he has sent me to the nations who plundered you
for the one who touches you is touching the pupil of his eye

2:13
for here I am about to brandish obj. my hand on them and they will be plunder for their own slaves
and you will know that Yahweh of hosts he has sent me

2:14
shout for joy and rejoice
O daughter of Zion for here I am about to come and I will dwell in midst of you the utterance of Yahweh

2:15
and they will join themselves nations many to Yahweh in that day
and they will become for me a people and I will dwell in midst of you
and you will know that Yahweh of hosts he has sent me to you

2:16
and will inherit Yahweh obj. Judah his portion on the land of holiness and he will choose again
Jerusalem

2:17
hush! O all flesh from before Yahweh
for he has roused himself from the dwelling place of his holiness
